---
title: "Barovia - Session 15"
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: "Barovia"
session: 15
---

  Many people are scattered through the room, some seated, others mingling freely.  Many of the people are clearly vampires, including the adventuring group they fought in Vallaki, with Gowain.  The rest end up being Ludmilla, a vampire noblewoman with dark skin and hair, in a beautiful white gown and gold crown.  Anastrasya, a vampire noblewoman in a red silk gown and headscarf with rich caramel skin and gold eyes. Volenta, a tiny vampire noblewoman in a shimmering gold dress, she has milk white skin and red eyes that flash through a platinum skull mask.  Escher, a fop of a vampire nobleman with gaunt features and golden hair, canoodling with a sixteen year old human girl in a black and silver gown; named Gertruda. The vampire group is all there save for Balthazar who was killed by Patches, Beerna catches the eye of Buumi and Kenga looks to want to talk to Gundren and Tark.  Lelrin hangs around on the edges of the gathering and Growland looks on, brooding against a pillar.  As well as vampires, there are several humans in attendance (including Gertruda): Boris the guard, Lady Wachter of Vallaki, Ireena and a man no one recognizes, who is Ludwig from Krezk.  

  The group mills around, but mostly end up taking their seats at the main table, music floating through the air from the unseen band.  Cirrus and Fey begin to ask Strahd to get down to business, but are curtly told no business until after dinner.  As this happens, JmJm saunters up to the Count and Ireena and focuses on the human woman, flashing her a smile and trying to pull his Cutlass from it's sheath in a flourish.  Not appreciating a weapon to be drawn near Strahd, Rahadin telekenetically prevents JmJm from drawing.  After a few more moments of JmJm's attempts to charm Ireena, Strahd loses his patience, lashing out with a lance of dark energy to engulf JmJm.  The group cries out, but see that Strahd has stopped short of a killing blow, JmJm held rapt by dark power, Cirrus begs the Counts forgiveness and to spare the life of the Bard.  Strahd agrees and releases JmJm into Cirrus's arms, who proceeds to slap the fool and tell him to leave the conversation.  Patches uses the commotion to sneak into the dining hall.  She quickly heads to Boris and picks him up for a dance in an attempt to distract and diffuse the situation.  The moon elf rogue succeeds, with graceful movements she manages to let the tension ebb from the room.  Tark sees an opportunity to get Ireena away from Strahd and asks her to dance, she accepts and they join Patches on the dance floor. 

  JmJm stumbles out of the hall, but not before catching the eye of Ludmilla, the vampire woman in white.  The vampire follows JmJm into the hallway and begins to charm him, lowering his defenses.  Just as Ludmilla starts to feed on him, JmJm snaps out of the charm and pushes her away...back in the room, Cirrus politely points out to Strahd that lashing out at JmJm and allowing Ludmilla to feed on him are not the actions of a good host.  Strahd agrees and apologizes for his outburst.  Out in the hall, Ludmillas eyes flick back to the room and her expression becomes crestfallen.  Pouting, she returns to the dinner, leaving a rattled JmJm outside the dining hall.  

  Tark, Gundren and Buumi are all seated together at the table.  Buumi has been mostly silent though, looking at the Vampire half-orc Barbarian; Beerna.  She has been staring at Buumi since he entered.  Buumi leans over and asks Tark and Gundren what he should do?  Gundren loudly responds by saying "I thought you had done that part before?  With the Dragon?"  Buumi goes bright red and shuts up by drinking a large mug of ale.  Kenga approaches Tark and Gundren, sitting opposite them and bringing them a mug of ale.  After talking for a moment, Kenga asks that if they have the chance, could they please kill him and free him from enslavement by Strahd.  After some inquiries, the group determines the vampires in attendance are all Thralls of Strahd and that the vampire adventuring group is not evil, but enslaved. 

  Dinner is served and the dancing ends, everyone returning to their seats as dishes from everyone's homelands are brought before each person magically.  Asking, the group finds out that each dish was created magically for each person.  Having returned to the dinner for his food, JmJm seems to sullenly pick at his food with his fork, sighing heavily and loudly every few minutes, echoed from behind by Steven a few moments later. Down by Patches, Lelrin the Moon elf Ranger (the same one they fought and got bitten in half by a T-Rex...) pokes Patches and leans in to talk quietly.  The Vampire moon elf, wearing exquisitely made and clean adventuring gear, is so pale as to gleam.  She asks Patches if she is a Moon elf pretending to be Drow, or a Drow pretending to be a moon elf - on account of her changing her skin and hair tone seemingly at a whim (her magic ring).  Patches responds cryptically and mentions she knows the Moonwood well.  Lelrin is shocked and leans in, covering her right hand with her cloak and begins signing to Patches in the Drow hand sign.  Patches responds and she is handed a locket by Lelrin, who asks Patches to return her heirloom to her people in the Moonwood.  Patches agrees to do so and pockets the locket.

  Bored by the small talk, Gundren looks around the room, noting the many vampire guards against the walls. Scanning, Gundren's eyes fixate on a huge battleaxe, leaning against a pillar behind the massive Vampire Barbarian.  Gundren scoots his chair back, loudly, and scoops up a leg of mutton and his flagon of ale and very loudly, dirtily and impolitely walks around the table to get a good look at it.  The massive thing is easily five feet from end to and, curving inwards and with a huge single edged head made of chipped Obsidian and so sharp that the edge of the blade is transluscent.  Gundren lets out an impressive snort, spraying ale and mutton everywhere.  Gundren loudly proclaims such an ax would be unwieldable.  Peytr stands and walks over, leaning over the dwarf, his massive bulk blocking Gundren's view of the room.  Peytr looks down and smiles, gesturing to Gundren for him to pick it up.  Gundren balances his ale and mutton in one hand and picks up the ax, expecting it to be very hefty and is shocked to find it as light as his own ax.  Peytr calls the axe to his hand and it leaps through the air to smack into his outstretched grasp.  Peytr chuckles and places it back against the wall, but not before telling Gundren that he hopes to taste his blood...Gundren calls Gwen to his side, to show he's not intimidated.  Most of the table marvel at the clockwork lion as it saunters past Strahd and Rahadin at the head of the table - Gwen bumping Rahadin out of the way gently (and bringing Gundren his gun).  Strahd exclaims that Gwen is akin to their own clockwork man - Piddlewick II, though far better made.  Gundren perks up at this and asks where Piddlewick II might be.  Strahd laments that the strange little thing is a being of technology and not flesh and blood she he cannot control it, he knows the thing is in the castle, but not where.  Disappointed, Gundren walks over to the stage area, where the band is situated.

  Across the room, Cirrus and Fey are both distracted by their own events.  Cirrus and Lady Wachter notice one another and Cirrus immediately turns to Strahd, complaining about the guest list, telling Strahd of how he had been so wronged by Lady Wachter and that she tried to kill Ireena.  Lady Wachter is summoned over to Strahd where she explains what actually happened.  That she tried to keep Ireena from the battle with Gowain and that Cirrus had come into her home uninvited and was very rude.  Strahd apologizes for any bad blood but that as Lord of the land, how could he not side with one of his own vassals in a case of word against word, but that Lady Wachter should return to her seat and ignore Cirrus and he, her.  Cirrus subtly ruins her food, but as she turns, she proclaims to have lost her appetite and goes to leave.  On the way out, Patches passes Lady Wachter and quietly asks her how her husband is doing...Lady Wachter freezes, staring daggers at Patches, before leaving the main hall.  Fey meanwhile has been contacted by Mordenkainen and finds out that Rahadin took Strahd to the amber temple while he was still human and that the next two journal pages are missing.  Fey tells Morden of the situation and that they are surrounded by a host of vampires.  Morden is deeply concerned and offers his limited support if they need extraction.  He tells the group to keep any means of creating sunlight prepared.  Fey asks Strahd how many times he has found Ireena in the valley.  Strahd responds that this is the third time, the first was when she was old and already dying and the second was when she was discovered and murdered by some villagers.  Fey notes that she should have shown up more often.

  Tark and Buumi have been watching an inappropriate display from across the table, looking at Escher and Gertruda, the older vampire barely able to keep his hands off the sixteen year old girl.  Gertruda is looking incredibly bored by the whole dinner but periodically whispers and giggles to Escher.  Tark and Buumi ask the girl if she knows that she's surrounded by Vampires and that Escher is going to try and feed on her.  She's thrilled by the idea and hopes to be turned.  Escher smiles a toothy grin and asks if the group has a problem.  Tark decides to try and push his buttons, mentioning Eschers enslavement to Strahd.  The vampire laughs and decides to leave, taking Gertruda with him.  Tark goes to head them off from leaving, but stops himself from making a scene, trying to see the bigger picture.

  Dessert is served and the group finally gets down to business and ask why Strahd has brought them here and how they can leave.   Strahd tells them that he and Rahadin want the shard of the artifact in Buumi's shield because they need it to break free of Barovia.  Strahd offers to bring the group with him and the castle when they leave Barovia, in exchange for the artifact.  The group whispers and thinks it over and quickly decide that an army of Vampires suddenly appearing in the mortal world would probably be very unhealthy in the long term.  Gundren blurts out loudly to the group, asking them why they would trust Rahadin, who is actually a dragon in disguise.  Patches then asks Rahadin how he feels about the other dusk elves in the valley, how long he's been trying to get out from Barovia and then slips a note to Fey to slip to Strahd.  Fey reads the note which simply says "there's rats in your court" and then slips it to Strahds pocket.  Tark meanwhile has picked up Ysera's golden scale to see if it gets a reaction from Rahadin.  It does not.  Both Rahadin and Strahd scoff at the accusations.

  As tensions begin to rise again, Tark catches the eye of Volenta, who's fanged smile gets into his heart.  Volenta decides that Tark is more of a catch than Ludwig and she roughly shoves the poor man out of his seat and to the floor.  Tark gets up and moves around the table, sitting down next to Beerna and Volenta, but quickly shrugs off Volentas vampire charm.  Gundren at this moment decides to play an old Dwarven drinking song on the stage Organ.  His ale splashing and belting out Dwarven obscenities, everyone goes still in shock and guards approach and make it VERY clear that the racket is not appreciated.  Gundren grumbles, but stops, surveying the room.  JmJm has once again caught the eye of Ludmilla, who walks past Tark as he heads to Beerna.  Tark tries to see if she's armed or has anything valuable, but finds nothing as she passes and she sits on JmJm's lap and they begin to kiss. Buumi stands and heads over to Ludwig, picking the man up and whispering for him to stay close to the group if he wants to survive this, he shivers and nods.  Many of the group flinch, feeling a small pinch, their fingers coming away from the location with blood on them.  Panic sweeps the room as the vampires all inhale the scent of fresh blood and their eyes begin to turn black.  The dining hall doors close with an ominous boom.  Cirrus yells to Rahadin to do something.  The dusk elf looks around in panic at the situation and quickly launches into spellcasting, making a 10ft section of the back wall disappear and creating an exit to a nearby hallway.  Buumi rushes to the exit, shoving Ludwig into the hall and taking up a defensive position.  Patches summons a globe of Darkness over Strahd, Peytr, Rahadin and Anastrasya and sends Boris to Buumi and the exit.  Tark snaps the leg off of Beerna's chair, dropping her to the floor and then shadowsteps over to Ireena.  Gundren rushes for the hole and hallway beyond, taking up a defensive position as Cirrus joins him.  The vampires appear to all be moving slowly, as if restrained, and indeed, Strahd calls out saying he can only hold the blood thirst so long and implores the group to flee.  Fey too rushes to the exit just as Tark grabs Ireena and uses his magical ring.  Throwing Ireena over his shoulder (her upper body smacking into the floor as she's about twice his size), Tark leaps off the back wall and clears the room, exiting easily.  Patches misty steps behind a pillar and dashes to the exit.  JmJm screams as the woman on top of him changes from a beautiful lady, to a fanged monster trying for his lifeblood and bolts to his feet, depositing the vampire to the floor.  He and Steven flee the room and pile into the hallway just before the passwall expires and the group finds themselves in a dark and dusty hallway, behind them a spiral staircase leading up and down and ahead of them the hallway opening into a large dark room.  Ludwig stands, shivering in the hall, terrified.  Cirrus, on the other side of the crowd of people thinks that he sees movement in the darkness but can't quite see through the people.  Ludwig calls back to the group, saying that he thinks he sees something but is cut off as a ballista bolt spears him from his feet.  The young man falls dead amidst the group who all turn in a panic down the hallway to see a monstrous undead frost giant knocking a new massive arrow into it's huge bow.   Tark quickly goes to the priest, unwilling to leave him to die, but as he flips the man over and pulls the Ballista bolt from him, Tark sees the extent of the damage and realizes there's no saving Ludwig... Fey rushes to the stairwell as Cirrus and Gundren try to collapse the ceiling of the hall ahead, managing to obscure the group from view.  As another Ballista shot richets off the wall, Cirrus drops a globe of darkness in the hall to further block the shots.  Fey hears a click as his first foot touches a stair and is pin-cushioned by several small crossbow bolts from a trap.  Fey stumbles against the wall, bleeding from several quarrels.  Buumi rushes over to heal him and JmJm rushes down the stairs with Steven.  The group rushes into the stairwell, Boris looking terrified and Ireena resolute as she cuts off the bottom of her dress and draws two daggers.

  At the bottom of the stair well, JmJm comes to a sudden halt, a large hallway bending 90 degrees ahead of him and into darkness. In contrast with the castle above, the cellar is dark, dank, covered in mold and cobwebs.  Only a few torches flicker in sconces and it lends the place an air of dread. JmJm's face alights with a grin and he pulls out his cutlass with a flourish proclaiming "Come and get me monsters!" boldly to the darkness.  In response, a massive footfall is heard from around the corner of the hall.  JmJm's confidence falters as moments later, a living Adonis marble statue plods around the corner.  JmJm lets out a little squeak and turns invisible, yelling at Steven to flee!  They turn and begin up the stairs but Steven trips and falls under the weight of JmJm's harp and JmJm is forced to go back for him.

  The rest of the group quickly arrives with Tark leading, who shadowsteps to the Stone Golem with a rope to try and trip it up.  Unfortunately, the sheer strength of the Golem tears the rope and the thing clubs Tark as he tries to dodge away, receiving a vicious hit.   Tark stumbles to the floor, breathless.  Up the stairs Patches rushes down, seeing the situation, she uses her spider web gauntlet to zip behind the Golem and stabbing it wickedly with Stabby.  Gundren begins putting shots into it as Fey and Cirrus both begin laying down a magical barrage.  Ireena and Boris both watch, dumbfounded from the doorway as the group of seasoned adventurers pick the Golem apart in short order.  Tark quaffs a potion as Buumi prays to helm to re-enforce his friend with a Shield of Faith.   Gwen runs and jumps off the wall, hitting the Golem and causing it to crash to the ground, as it stands up again quickly;  Patches is clipped by a backhand from the Golem but manages to dodge the worst of it.   With a final volley of spells, shots and attacks, the Golem is smashed apart into a pile of broken marble and strange black sludge.  Down the hallway, by one set of double doors, JmJm flashes back into view as he reports to the group that he sees a chamber with skeletons laying in ancient rotten cots.  The group looks at him incredulously as they breath heavily from the exertion of battle, a battle JmJm foolishly brought upon them, and glace to one another in concern...
