---
title: Silverymoon - Session 2
chapter: 6
chapterTitle: Silverymoon
session: 2
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "cercei"
  - "chani"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gebbin-steeltoe"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "lady-faye"
  - "lathander"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "moot"
  - "moradin"
  - "pickles"
  - "ront"
  - "selune"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
places:
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "gauntlgrym"
  - "sundabar"
  - "the-establishment"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
---

The Dwarven patrol pushes forward to greet the group, looking upon their saviors in awe and finally taking in the sight of them as the adrenaline of battle fades.  Gundren immediately gets the majority of his kinsmen ogling his equipment and wishing to speak to him.  Indeed, Gebbin Steeltoe, the Patrol captain immediately begins chatting with his fellow Dwarf, naturally assuming him to be the leader of the party.  The wagon, Cercei and the the Rockseeker brothers have joined the party at the bridge by this point and Patches trots up astride Kitty with Mr. Pickles pulling the cowl of his cloak low and trying to look as inconspicuous as possible behind her.  The newly revived dwarves are attended to by Cirrus, bringing both back to consciousness with blessings from Selune.   Meanwhile, Buumi stands up wearily from reviving the two Dwarves and Stumbles over to Aurora and mounts up.  Gebbin turns to one of his officers and has him blow the all clear on the patrol horn and then begins ordering his troops to prepare to head into the city, to escort the group and take them to The Hopping Hair military Tavern for a feast as a thanks.  The Dwarven captain has his troops go over and butcher the dead Hill giant, proclaiming that nothing tastes better, as it's essentially a sixteen hundred pound pig...  Collecting the meat, and after the Patrol finally manages to settle down from inspecting their heroic saviors, they turn and head across the bridge to Sundabar, with a Moon-elf disguised Patches taking up the rear and the Wagon in the center.

Ahead rises a fortress the likes of which none of the group have ever seen.  A massive, fifteen meter tall stone wall encircles the city of Sundabar, seamless until the light catches the smooth stone just right, showing stonework only possible from Dwarves or Gnomes.  A great moat, fifty feet wide, lays at the base of the wall and is spanned by fortified bridges at several visible points, each one a fortress in its own right.  As they get closer, the group can see that the walls are a bustle of activity, some areas still covered in scaffolding from the new construction.  They notice at one point, one of many large towers rising above the surrounding wall and a massive crane is operating on it's top, hauling into place a huge metal siege engine with an ornate dragons head, possibly a cannon or similar artillery piece.  Indeed, as they watch, the party can see sunlight glinting off the metal barrels of smokepowder cannons spaced every couple of dozen yards along every visible section of the wall.  Sacked by Orcs, dragons and Drow only two years ago, the reconstruction and fortification from the outside is astounding.

Gebbin notes the looks of awe on his charges faces and chuckles.  Fey and Tark both inquire about the Dragon-headed artillery and are told they are "flame-spitter cannons" capable of putting a Red Dragon to shame at three hundred yards.  Tark begs for a demonstration, but is rebuffed.  The group heads into the city over the fortified Rauvingate Bridge, past dozens of plate clad sentries and beneath hundreds of Dwarven eyes.  As the group approaches the main gates, a trio of clerics rush out to attend to the wounded but after a few moments note that those covered in blood are not as hurt as it would appear.  The clerics thank the group for saving their kin and head to a nearby tower for a beer.  The caravan makes it to the massive city gates and are once again blown away by the craftsmanship, so much so that Fey is beginning to think that something is up, he has visited Sundabar before and though impressive, was never capable of feats like what he's now witnessing.   Fey inquires and discovers that the city of Sundabar is now linked to the Dwarven capitol of Gauntlgrym by a magical gate, through which all manner of help and trade can now flow.  Using this gate and with the ease of help, the city of Sundabar is now far greater than it was before the war with the Orcs that devastated it.  As Gebbin is relaying this, Patches has been scouring the gate, trying to figure out it's worth, but gives up as she has a hard time even comprehending.   Stepping through the massive Adamantite and Mithril portal, the group is presented with a much different sight than they were expecting.

On the other side of the walls, the Uppercity is still very much in ruins.  The streets have been cleared of major debris, but other than that, everything is still in the state it was when it was sacked by the invading Orcs.  Having focused their efforts on rebuilding and improving their fortifications, the Dwarves are only now turning their attention to rebuilding the Uppercity.  Shanty towns have sprung up in the old neighborhoods as survivors, refugees and opportunists move in and are policed and organized by the Dwarven lords of the city.  Patches notes several sign posts that have the Thieves Cant scribed into them and notes one Shanty town in particular where she might meet a contact to be resupplied.  The group also notes the old Temple Plaza, with four cathedrals dedicated to Waukeen, Helm, Ilmater and Lathander.  All four cathedrals are derelict, massive edifices of shattered stone now open to the sky above.

The group approaches a fortified section of roadway and notes a huge square hole cut into the ground, a cargo elevator with two roadways heading down at a steep angle, down into the Undercity of Sundabar.  The entrance to the Undercity is a repeat of the incredible fortifications but with one added element, a Cleric of Moradin scanning over any wishing to head down.  The group and their escort begin to make their way down with the Wagon (led by Bart the Ox) until the Cleric; Nora, stops the group, looking at Patches and Fey specifically.  Feeling the evil emanations from the two, she asks to see their artifacts, narrowing down the evil she felt.  She accepts the explanations, realizing that the wielders are not evil, but the artifacts surely are and asks the group to be careful and not start anything.  Nora is also further mollified by Gebbin and her brother Gillyd Rockseeker who relays that the party saved the lives of every member of the Patrol.  The group begins their descent without further issue. After twenty minutes, the tunnel finally levels off and the group makes it to the gateway to the Undercity, specifically the Military Training Ward, or the "Beardless Brawl Hall" as the Dwarves call it.  Entering through another fortified entry, the group is reminded of the defensive might of this place by Gebbin as he points out that these tunnels, and all the others like it withstood the siege for a year.  Looking around, the group believes it, noting the brown stained rock they walk on, the hundreds of arrow slits, murder holes and even that the ceiling can be dropped if need be.  Fey's hands start sweating...  The procession continues, through one set of gates, a repeat of the fortifications and then out a second set of gates and the group finds themselves on a terrace overlooking a grand subterranean hall.

The din of practice battle assaults their ears almost as violently as the smell of unwashed Dwarf assaults the groups olfactory senses. A vast chamber opens up before them with massive, regular columns holding the ceiling high above.  The spaces between columns hold buildings, terraces, practice fields, barracks, forges and any number of structures necessary to run the massive military operation of training the population for war and all are bustling with activity.  The ward, and indeed the Undercity itself, is lit by uncounted magical flame torches, none emitting smoke, but all creating a warm and encompassing light that fits with the general warmth felt throughout the Undercity.  At the back of the chamber, two large braziers burn, emitting no smoke and illuminate a set of glittering Golden doors leading to one of the Clan Vaults.

The caravan veers off to the left for a short while and then down a side avenue and the group finally sees their destination; a large Inn and Tavern - The Hopping Hair, that has a sign with a hopping beard on it.  The group parks their wagon, leaving Mr. Pickles, the Wartigers (who the Dwarves are eyeing respectfully...) and a number of the Dwarven patrol to guard.  Fey expresses some concern about leaving their treasure out, but Gebbin assures them that after the heroics the group pulled, he and his boys will protect it with their lives.  The group heads inside and are greeted with a truly epic sight.  Fifty rambunctious Dwarves are already partying, the large open common room busy with bodies and serving gals weaving their way around, delivering flagons of ale.  The center of the place is taken up by seven large firepits, each with a pig roasting on a spit.  Once Gebbin sees the pits, he calls out, proclaiming he brought Giant to a round of cheers and the meat is taken to a free pit to begin roasting.  The group is ushered to a large open table and food, ale and good cheer abounds.  The first of the giant comes off the spit and Tark digs in ferociously, as does Cercei and the rest of the group soon joins in.  Patches eats her fill quickly and then retires to a back table with some seedier looking Dwarves smoking Opium from a Hookah and joins them for a while.  Everything is happy and calm...until Tark notices a fighting ring in the back and stumbles into it, half drunk.  A cheer goes up and a Dwarf stumbles out to challenge Tark, who readily accepts.  Tark and the Dwarf exchange a flurry of blows, both taking wicked hits, but Tark knocks the Dwarf to the ground, picks him up by his beard and slams him back to the ground, knocking him out.  The tavern cheers in excitement and everyone wonders who will face the Halfling monk next, coin is exchanged and the betting pool is on.  Buumi heads to his friend to help him out and finds himself in the ring with the Halfling.  Cheers go up and Buumi shrugs, smiling at his friend, and they begin a bout.  The Monk and Paladin exchange heavy blows, Buumi hitting like a truck, but Tark striking four times for every swing of Buumi's one hand (Tark tying one hand behind his back to make things even).  Seeing things taking a turn for the monk, Cirrus and Fey conspire and the warlock casts a spell to muddle Buumi's mind and turn things in their favor as they had bet on Tark to win.  After a final exchange of blows, Tark remains on his feet and Buumi is laid out flat, though it was very close.  Tark retires from the ring to much applause and takes his friend with him for more ale.  Meanwhile, Patches has slipped out from the establishment.

Taking the long walk back to the surface and the uppercity, Patches finds herself in the shady shanty town she noted earlier.  Slipping from shadow to shadow and filtering amongst the denizens, the lithe Drow elf follows the signs of her ilk and makes her way to the Sloppy Sahuagin, a dive bar in the seedier part of town.  Entering under the guise of the moon-elf, Stitches, she enters the joint and is greeted with a haze of smoke, body odor, cheap liquor and two rambunctious drunks.  One of them tries to put his hands on the elf and she dodges, grabbing his thumb and snapping it as his friend attempts to grab at her, taking a kick to the head.  The bar stops for a moment to take this in, before turning back to their drinks, paying it no more mind.  Patches sees her goal; a back room, partitioned off with a curtain and guarded by a huge, burly man.  After seeing her display and receiving a password, the fat man waves her in and she slips through the curtain and into the back room and sees a card game in progress.  A number of Xentarim agents sit around the table playing, until Patches recognizes her contact; Abalaba the Gnome.  Patches calls her out and Abalaba excuses herself from the table, beckoning Patches to follow her to a secret back room.  Once inside, Patches reveals her identity and discovers that Lady Faye and the organization thought Patches was dead.  She confirms her identity and checks in with Lady Faye using a magical quill that can write across vast distances.  Abalaba sells Patches her Source Stones, explaining that many are enjoying the powerful stones, but that she's heard of some issues with the supply recently.  Patches picks up a Bolt of Dragon Slaying, purple worm poison and as she leaves, Abalaba hands her a magical quill so that she can stay in contact and place further orders.  Patches then makes her way back to the Undercity and the Tavern to find the group in conversation with a number of craftsmen Dwarves.

The craftsmen heard that a powerful band of adventurers had entered the city, so they came over to trade, knowing adventurers always have excellent and rare goods.  Cirrus negotiates with the leader, whittling down the competition until four Dwarves remain, paying several hundred gold each to peruse the groups wares the following day.  The group retires for the evening not long after, renting rooms in The Hopping Hair.  Everyone sleeps soundly save for Buumi, who wakes up in the middle of the night, sweating from nightmares of Barovia and finds no more rest that evening.  The next morning, Patches wakes early and heads out to ask for directions to the forges.  She makes her way to the Everfire, the heart of Sundabar.

The sounds of forges and the clang of hammers meets Patches ears a moment before a wash of sulphurous fumes greets her nose.  The temperature rises uncomfortably and sweat begins to bead on her brow.  Looking out from her perch, she sees a large circular chamber acting as the hub of the giant wheel that is the Dwarven Undercity of Sundabar.  At it's very center is a shallow pit two hundred feet across and twenty feet deep and is filled with bubbling lava.  Around the pit are dozens of forges, all using the intense heat to fuel their acts of creation.  As Patches looks on, she sees several Dwarves in fabulous suits of armor - looking more like golems - at the base of several sets of staircases that approach right to the lavas edge and she watches as they scrape precious metals from it's surface with long skimmers as they harvest their bounty from the Everfire.

Around the exterior of the chamber, buildings rise, carved into every surface of the chamber, creating a sphere of workshops, housing and storage for the heart of the city.  Patches spots one industrious forge, the smith already hard at work and heads down to discuss some trade.  Approaching the forgemaster, she shows the Dwarf her revolver, asking him to make her a number of bullets.  The Dwarf is astounded at the mechanical device and offers to make her the bullets for free if she draws him a schematic.  Patches does so and the Dwarf implores her not to show the gun to anyone else, which she agrees to.  Patches tests the new bullets, creating a ruckus but the forgemaster and her own persuasive skills convince the nearby guards that it's just some experiment and they usher the kind moon elf along.  Patches returns to the tavern to once again find the group inundated with Dwarven craftsmen, this time though they have arrived with sacks of gold and are paying for the excess treasure the group hauled out of Ravenloft.  Dwarves are leaving laden with goods, leaving Cirrus behind to keep track of inventory and gold in a large ledger.  Up in their rooms, the group looks upon their piles of newfound wealth, in awe at the possibilities in front of them...
