---
title: "Barovia - Session 26"
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: "Barovia"
session: 26
---

The Group splits up in exhaustion, some heading into the box, others taking to the upper castle and yet others remaining in the main hall.  Tark sits with the corpse of the grand Silver Dragon and places a hand upon Rahadin's head, praying and meditating that the majestic creature find peace in the afterlife.  Fey turns from the somber scene and begins making his way upstairs, across cracked stone and floating sections of castle back to Strahds study.  Leaning heavily on his staff, Fey makes it back to the library, the fireplace now reduced to cold ash.  Fey stares at the hearth, willing his exhausted mind to function and recalls that there's a secret passage behind it.  He takes a few minutes to study the area but in his current state, spots nothing and turns to head out of the Library and into Strahds bedroom.  There, he throws the grand windows open wide to let in as much sunlight as possible, takes off his Alhoon mask and then flops onto the ancient, but well kept four poster bed.  For the first time in a long time, and very much unlike an elf, he sleeps.

  In the main hall of the castle, Patches slaps Cirrus and he awakes with a start.  Finding his hands bound, he looks up at his companion and apologizes for his actions with the dragon teeth and the attack.  Patches speaks about a chain analogy and mentions that right now, Cirrus appears to be a weak link, something she will not tolerate.  Cirrus promises to do better and Patches tells him that she expects nothing less before cutting his bonds and turning to walk away.  Cirrus looks over to the dragon and steels himself, deciding to confront his issues, and walks up the the gaping maw.  He stares at the teeth, feeling the urge, the need to claim them and walks a step forward.  He begins reaching out to touch one large fang before he freezes and closing his eyes, wills himself to stop.  Cirrus turns and walks away from the teeth, over to Danica and her children around the corpse of Urwen.  Cirrus gives his condolences to Danica and the children, telling them there is nothing he can do, save one thing and begins taking off the magnificent Raven armor.  He hands over the armor to Danica who accepts the heirloom of her people with solemn gratitude and dons it herself.  They say goodbye and Danica shifts into the form of a massive Raven, her children climbing on her back as she gently scoops up the corpse of her husband.  With the flapping of enormous feathered wings, Danica takes to the air and makes her way out the front of the castle.  Ezmerelda waves to the departing Raven, calling to be picked up too and Danica swerves to oblige.  Picked up in the huge talons, Ezmerelda turns and calls out a farewell to Cirrus and Tark, saying that she hopes to see everyone again in the future before her words are lost with the departing Giant Raven.

  Meanwhile, Patches has been doing her best to loot each and everything of value that she can carry.  She heads back to the chapel, sifting through piles of Vampire ash for their jewelry and finding an old corpse in the chapel and stripping it of valuables.  Remembering the extensive catacombs, she then beelines it back and begins searching each crypt as methodically as possible, grabbing gemstones, gold and other valuables with her bag of holding.  Scouring the catacombs, she finds many treasures, including Strahds personal armor and a more advanced kind of pistol, one with a rotating central cylinder she pockets to show Gundren later.  One catacomb in particular catches her eye, but as she approaches, she feels an ominous cold and decides to come back with Buumi.  After a few hours of searching, Patches exhaustion finally catches up with her and she returns to the main floor to head into the Tavern of Doors for a much needed rest.

  In the Tavern, a tense standoff has occurred, with Barthen and Nundro accusing the surprising little girl of being a monster.  The little girl, turns out to be the hatched Black Dragon egg Buumi received in the Bog and is herself a Dragon Hatchling.  Roughly a year has gone by in the Tavern and Prime Material plane, a year for the little dragon and the Dwarves to be trapped together in the Tavern.  Some tense days followed after her hatching, causing the Dwarves to lock her in a closet, retrieve weapons and then went back to kill her, only to find that the dragon had shifted into the form of a little girl.  They couldn't finish the deed knowing she was Buumi's daughter and the Box entered a tense peace with the little girl; Cercei, being a veritable terror to the Dwarves and Goblin servants with her spoiled, cruel and capricious nature.  After hearing this recounting, Buumi begins talking to the little girl who is ecstatic to finally meet her "daddy" and the Paladin begins to try and get a handle on what this all means.  At one point, the group asks what Cercei did for fun for the last year and the little girl calls over two Goblins and makes them start fighting, causing her to clap with glee before the horrified group puts a stop to it.  Eventually, exhaustion overcomes Buumi and Gundren and they retire, Buumi falling asleep on a plush couch with Cercei while Gundren joins his brothers in their chambers.  Mordenkainen had walked into the main hall of the Tavern while the recounting of the last year had been happening and decided it was none of his business, picking a large armchair and falling into it for some much needed sleep.

  Several hours later, Patches returns from her looting and Tark too has made his way back into the box.  Patches is astounded by Cercei and takes her aside for a chat believing her to be manipulating everyone with the appearance of an innocent little girl.  After a quick discussion, Patches comes to the realization that Cercei is sincere and that any manipulation is so core to her character that it's not an act, simply who she is.  Patches asks if Cercei wants to learn how to fight and the girl says that she thinks so.  Patches has her try to strike her and the girl shoots a glob of acid at the Rogue, but is easily dodged.  She makes the little dragon promise to consult with her before doing anything (like stealing or killing) and then begins to inventory of all the loot while Cercei heads back to Buumi.  JmJm meanwhile has retired with a cadre of Goblins to pamper him into luxurious oblivion.

   Fey awakes hours later, the Sun now high in the sky and warming the castle despite the chill autumn air.  Somewhat refreshed, the Wizard walks out of Strahd's old chambers onto the balcony and looks out across the arid desolation of the Anauroch desert, toward the green foothills and ice capped mountains of Luruar.  On the edge of the desert a strange phenomenon catches his eye - en extremely localized thunderstorm.  Staring at the strange weather, it sparks some recognition and his eyes go wide as he spots a winged from speeding in his direction - he remembers that a family of Blue Dragons makes their home on the border of Luruar and the Anauroch... Fey grabs his mask up from the nightstand, brandishes his staff and enacts a spell of flight on himself and leaps over the balcony to descend back to the main floor through a swarm of floating debris and ruins, to warn his comrades.

  Back on the main floor, the group has awoken from their rests and made their way out of the box.  Cercei and the Dwarven brothers exit the box for the first time in the last year and are astounded by what they see.  The little girl has her eyes covered so she cannot see the corpses and Buumi takes her out the front door of the castle and into the grand courtyard to get her first look of the wider world.  Gundren's brothers are astounded by the castle and the state of magical destruction it seems to be frozen in.  Even more exciting for them is the thought of harvesting the corpse of a Silver Dragon for crafting supplies and the trio begin drawing up plans and analyzing how best to make use of all the goods.  Just then, Fey swoops down through the cracked ceiling and lands before the group, telepathically imparting a warning: Dragon!  The group, Mordenkainen included, heads out the main doors to the open courtyard of the castle, the walls of the place having crumbled to the foundations during the flight from Barovia.  Everyone looks up into the clear blue sky and sees a massive winged form bearing down on the castle, glittering azure scales and magnificent horns protruding from a regal face.  The Blue Dragon touches down and then folds in on itself, twisting and shrinking into the clothed form of a beautiful high-elf female, glittering blue gown trailing behind her as she walks the last hundred feet to the group.  The Dragon-Elf announces herself as Anaxtrasa and that she is here to investigate this incursion into her territory.

  The group greets the dragon and things get off on a decent foot.  Much of the arrogant bluster a dragon would normally exhibit is absent as Ana looks behind the group and notes the huge form of a dead Silver Dragon.  As she scans the group a little more intently she notes the Black Dragon Hatchling, causing Cercei to clutch onto her father, afraid of the other chromatic dragon.  Ana's eyes linger on Mordenkainen and they exchange a small nod of recognition to one another and her respect for the group increases dramatically, realizing they are not to be trifled with.  Gundren meanwhile begins making unwelcome remarks about taking Ana's scales and how pretty some blue would go with silver.  Buumi shuts the rude dwarf up and Cirrus begins negotiations.  Eventually, an agreement is made and the group is given 3 hours to collect as much treasure from the castle as they can carry, at which point everything else (and the castle) belongs to Anaxtrasa.  Additionally, the Dragon will fly the group to the base of the Pillarstone.  Once it is decided, Ana turns and walks to the edge of the courtyard, surveying the landscape below and Tark follows.  Tark begins talking to Ana who is cold and aloof, until Tark mentions the nickname people have given him recently - Dragonslayer.  Ana eyes the dangerous little monk, cocking an eyebrow before her gaze returns to surveying the desert.

  Over the next three hours, the group manages to find Strahd's vault and loot it entirely, as well as the crypt for his ex-lover Patrina though the Banshee is still inside.  Buumi turns the undead maiden away and once she realizes they are no longer in Barovia, she flees the castle, leaving her treasure for the group. Meanwhile, the Rockeseeker brothers have been systematically harvesting as much material from the corpse of Rahadin as possible, gathering a great deal of rare items.  Eventually, with the Bags of holding completely full, the group returns to the main hall and enters The Tavern of Doors.  Tark picks up the box and returns to Anaxtrasa.  She transforms into her true form and gently scoops the halfling up in a talon and unfolds her massive wings to leap into the sky.  Descending quickly, the Blue Dragon is about to drop the halfling to his death and take the rest of the groups treasure (and them probably) as a prize.  Suddenly, Tark shadowsteps  to the back of the dragon as she passes through the shadow of the Pillarstone, riding the dragon and letting out a whoop of excitement.  The Dragon tenses, and realizes that maybe it's best just to let these ones go...  A few moments later, Tark is dropped off on the rocky ground and Ana immediately takes off again, ascending back to her new aerie without another word.

  The group exits the box one by one until everyone it out and standing on the rocky desert floor, the massive pillarstone ascending behind them into the late afternoon sky.   JmJm turns to the group dramatically and announces that he is leaving, that he must go out into the world and find his valiant Steven once more.  The group looks at the bard in pity, reminding him that his loyal Goblin friend is dead, that he perished in Castle Ravenloft.  JmJm barks out a laugh and says nay, using some powerful magic, he has caused his friend to be re-incarnated somewhere out in the larger world and now, he must go and find him.  The group looks at one another in shock but it quickly turns to resigned smiles and nods.  They share hugs and goodbyes and JmJm kicks everyone out of the box, giving the group time to collect all their things, supplies, treasure and assemble it on the wagon they got all the way back in Phandalin, pulled by their Oxen - Bart.  Tark leaps onto JmJm for one last hug and then the Bard turns, with the Tavern of Doors on his hip and saunters off to the south, to Waterdeep. The rest of the group watches him go for a while, until eventually they turn and begin to make their way west, to the closest major city of Sundabar. Just before they can truly set off, Mordenkainen too announces that it is time he took his leave.  He thanks the group for saving his life, knowing that without them he would have never made it out of Barovia and hands Fey a sealed scroll tube as thanks.  He then hands over a treasure beyond compare - a potion of Longevity brewed by Elminster himself.  The group realizes what such a potion would do for the shorter lived members and after a quick discussion, decide that Tark, Buumi, Cirrus and Gundren (being an older Dwarf) should each take a drink, increasing their lifespan by twenty years each.  Mordenkainen begins summoning power, to teleport back to his homeworld of Oerth.  Just before going, he says he will replace the lost sending stone and be in contact with the group once he has figured out what's happening in the larger cosmos.  Stick says goodbye with his normal glib attitude and then he and the archmage disappear in a flash of light and energy. 

A somber mood falls over the group as yet another companion, if not friend, leaves to go their own way.  The wagon rolls out , pulled by Bart and driven by The Rockseekers.  Everyone else is atop their mounts save for Cirrus who is sitting with Barthen and Nundro, using his spells to shape the earth in front of the wagon to smooth out the ride.  Meanwhile, Cercei has fallen asleep in Buumi's arms atop Aurora and Mr. Pickles and Patches are riding Kitty.  The heavily laden wagon trundles steadily on as the sun sets and a cold, clear night descends upon the desert.  The group spends many hours riding at a steady, slow pace, slow enough that everyone can get some much needed rest while traveling.

  Many hours after sundown, Patches notes a gleam of metal nearby and dismounts, walking over to investigate.  She discovers an ornate brass lamp, half buried in sand, and picks it up.  Not thinking much of it, the Rogue puts it in the Bag of holding with the rest of her treasure and remounts Kitty, catching up to the rest of the group.  Several more hours go by uneventfully, the night wearing on into the darkest time of the morning.   It is only the astounding low light vision of the Drow that allows Patches to spot something out of the ordinary.  A few hundred feet away, over a ridge and down a small valley, she spots the rising glow of a heat plume with her infravision and tells the rest of the party.  Patches and Tark dismount and decide to go check it out, quietly sneaking their way across the dust and rock.  Calling shadow around himself, Tark goes completely invisible and with her training and Drow Piwafwi, so is Patches.  They ascend the ridge and look down the other side and spot a small encampment of eight or so Bandits, all fast asleep.  With a flash of insight, the two realize they must have bypassed the outer guards and turn to search, spotting a man crouched behind a boulder dressed for a long day in the desert and holding a short bow.  Patches rushes over, quiet as the wind and dispatches the guard just as Tark spots something down in the camp and Shadowsteps down into the small dale.  Patches rushes to catch up, and silently makes it to her companion who has found a cage.  Looking inside, they find a thoroughly dejected looking woman.  They quietly ask her about her situation and discover the Bandits had killed her family and captured her to sell into slavery.  Patches quickly unlocks the cage and she, Tark and the woman - Farrah, sneak back out of the camp through the hole in the watch.

  Catching up with the rest of the convoy, Patches and Tark recount what they had seen and Farrah breaks down, crying in joy to be free and sadness for the loss of her family.  Fey stares at the poor woman for a moment and then stands, dismissing his summoned mount and turns to march back toward the Bandit camp, murder in his heart.  Patches, Cirrus and Tark rush to keep up, leaving Buumi, Gundren and the Rockseekers behind to guard the wagon.  Fey makes it to the top of the hill where the guard had been slain by Patches and looks down upon the Bandits.  Extending both hands, he summons a Cloudkill that begins wafting down the hillside and into the small dale to engulf the sleeping Bandits while Tark and Patches skirt the hills, dispatching other guards.  The Cloudkill begins engulfing the sleeping men, silencing them forever until a shout of alarm goes up and the remaining men spring to their feet in a panic, just as an eerie chuckling begins emanating from the ominous, deadly fog.  Terrified, the men grab their things and rush away from the cloud, ascending the other side of the small dale only to stop short as they see a silhouette rise in front of them.  Fey, having misty stepped to the other side of the dale, blocks their path.  Cirrus surrounds the mage with a flash of bright light, stunning the terrified bandits long enough for Fey to enact another spell.  Black tentacles spring out of the sand, wrapping men and dragging them into the ground.  The leader of the group stares at Fey, stunned as a subordinate desperately tries to shake him free of the beguiling magical aura surrounding the enraged wizard.  The shaking stops as Patches puts a bullet through the mans sternum and he drops dead.  Only the leader is still standing and Fey strides forward, his staff in two hands and stabs the sharp end of his Ice Staff through the mans chest, killing him.

  The party reconvenes at their wagon and mounts, now with two camels liberated from the deceased Bandits.  The group hands them over to Farrah as a small consolation for the loss of her family and returns to her what loot they found from the dead.  The woman thanks the group profusely, crying openly and turns south with her new mounts to go and find the rest of her tribe.  The group settles back in to continue their trek, no one mentioning the massacre they had just enacted, that maybe the darkness of Barovia was still with them, darkening their hearts...
