---
title: Silverymoon - Session 3
chapter: 6
chapterTitle: Silverymoon
session: 3
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "bahamut"
  - "cercei"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "eilistraee"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "mediocris-dente"
  - "megno-slatesunder"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
places:
  - "barovia"
  - "gauntlgrym"
  - "neverwinter"
  - "silverymoon"
  - "sundabar"
  - "temple-of-helm"
  - "underdark"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "deck-of-illusions"
  - "gwen"
  - "luck-blade"
  - "the-reaver"
factions:
  - "derro-faction"
  - "illithid-faction"
---

The group is upstairs in their rooms in The Hopping Hair, staring at their accumulated wealth.   Cirrus turns to the others, looking up from his improvised ledger and simply proclaims "We are rich".  Cercei immediately strolls over to the sacks of coin and demands no one spend her treasure!  The group shares incredulous looks and Buumi attempts to diffuse the situation, eventually convincing the little dragon that by spending gold on equipment they can in turn accumulate more gold, which mollifies the hatchling.  Having reduced their load considerably, the group splits the gold between their two bags of holding, Fey taking one and Tark the other.  The idea of shopping comes up and the party splits, with Gundren, Fey and Buumi heading to the Everfire forges while Cirrus and Patches go looking for an alchemist.  The group asks Tark what he's going to do for the day and he responds with "exploring".  Cercei is left on her pile of coins in the room with Aurora and Kitty.

Tark leaves the inn, bee-lining it back to the military ward that houses the teleportation gate he and Fey heard about the night before.  Getting close to the fortress, Tark ducks into a nearby alleyway and goes invisible.  A few moments later, two dwarves that had noted him entering the alley poke their heads in and look confused when they don't see the distinctive halfling.  The Dwarf patrol leaves and the invisible monk sneaks to the edge of the alley, looking up at the fortress wall, shadowstepping to  the parapets in a dim section of light as he spots a guard go by.  On the Parapet, he looks down into the small courtyard and notes an open set of fortified doors, the only visible set and shadowsteps down to them, at the edge of the nearby torchlight.  Two guards stand on either side of the door and as the halfling slips in, one of them looks around curiously, feeling a breeze.  Inside the fortress now, Tark sees a 50ft. long hallway with no doors except a set of reinforced Mithril and Adamantite at the far end.  Lining the well lit hallway however, are dozens of arrow slits and murder holes. Tark gulps and sprints forwards, silent in his boots of Elvenkind (taken from Rahadin), conscious that his invisibility will wear off any minute.  One at the far gate, Tark comes to a stop and begins inspecting the doors from top to bottom but sees no handle, lock or keyhole.  Thinking quickly, the monk knocks on the doors and then jumps up to the keystone in the arch above the gate, pressing himself uncomfortably between it and the ceiling in the tight confines.  After an agonising few seconds, sweat beginning to bead on his brow, the gates open with a resounding "clang" and out strides a Dwarf.  The Dwarf is clad in the most amazing armor the monk has ever seen, making the bearded folk look more like a statue of living metal than flesh and blood.  The glittering plate is seamless and every joint is covered with overlapping plates of metal.  Even the eyeholes of the helmet appear to have glass, or some other transparent material in it, and the warrior has a huge battleaxe strapped across his back.  Tark rolls under the door frame and into the room, mimicking his placement on the inside of the chamber and sees his target - the Teleportation gate to Gauntlgrym.  Tark shadowsteps on top of the gate and waits, seeing it inactive and hoping for someone to come through.  Laying flat on top, the guards do not notice as Tark's invisibility wears off, but the minutes drag by with no action.  After an hour of waiting, Tark gives up and decides not to press his luck any further.  Looking around the room, he spots an arrow slit he can look through and can see a sliver of a table, and shadowsteps into the shadows beneath it.  Now on the outer ring defences of the gate, Tark finds himself in a hallway that encircles the entry way to the portal.  At every arrow slit sits a Dwarven guard with a huge repeating crossbow on the table next to him.  Slipping from shadow to shadow, the monk scouts the space but finds nothing of interest.  Eventually, Tark makes his way back to the front of the fortress and finds a lever attached to a secret door that would lead him outside.  He pulls it, hears a guard outside make a grunt, noticing the door open.  Tark enacts the flight of his staff and zips out of the doorway in a blur of speed.  An exclamation goes up from one guard as his helm is knocked from his head as Tark sails over the fortress wall and then shadowsteps down to the floor and ducks behind a pillar.  Breathing heavily and thanking Bahamut that he was not caught, Tark turns and begins walking from the Military Ward.  A few moments later, the two Dwarven guards from earlier call for Tark to stop, inquiring his purpose.

Meanwhile, Gundren and Buumi have arrived at the Everfire, following Fey'Anon who is leading them to an old friend of his.  Arriving at a small workshop by the Everfire itself, the group heads inside to meet a Dwarven Enchanter by the name of Megno Slatesunder.  Initially shocked and apprehensive, Fey takes off his Illithid mask and they greet as old friends.  Gundren is entranced by the contraptions within the workshop and Megno is astounded by Gwen.  After exchanging pleasantries, Buumi gets to the point, asking if a prosthetic arm could be made for him.  The group sits down to discuss it and begin drawing up schematics, chatting for hours as the day wears on into later afternoon and early evening.  Eventually, they think they have a good start on a plan and the group returns to their rooms at the inn to meet up with the others.

Cirrus and Patches took it upon themselves to resupply their stock of healing potions and look out for anything that may aid them in the future.  After asking directions (Cirrus disguised as a Dwarf with a beautiful braided beard and Patches as a Moon Elf), they wander over to the Artificing Terrace, an out of the way district with cloying smoke, smog and the sounds of labs and experiments going awry.  They find themselves entering a modest establishment run by a very rude, gnome alchemist.  After perusing his wares and haggling (unsuccessfully), Cirrus and Patches walk out of the store a few thousand gold poorer, but with several powerful potions.  Not happy to have spent so much and be treated so rudely, they call over two guards and complain, spinning a tale of illicit goods and watered down potions and pointing at the shop they just exited.  The two guards are convinced enough, have heard complaints of the Gnomes' terrible attitude before and head in to have a chat with the Alchemist but discover that he's gone.  Meanwhile, Patches slinks into a side alley and climbs to the second story of the shop, determined to steal something to recoup their losses and breaks into the Alchemists bedroom.  Quickly going over the room, Patches spots a small lockbox underneath the bedside table and pockets it just as she hears to Gnome enter his shop through a back door, swearing that he forgot something just as the two guards call out to the gnome.  Patches dives out the window, landing in the alley in a graceful crouch and strolls out to Cirrus.  They both immediately turn and walk away briskly leaving the area and the Gnome to his guard troubles.  Cirrus drops his disguise once out of sight of prying eyes.  The two then decide to head up to the surface, Patches needing to meet Abalaba (her contact) and Cirrus fascinated by the whole thing, tags along.

Once on the surface, Patches heads straight to The Sloppy Sahuagin.  The afternoon is drawing on and the sun is low on the horizon, but twilight is still about an hour away and the place is sparsely populated.  Patches and Cirrus head to the back room, now empty, and can see that the door in the back wall to Abalaba's office is open.  Patches calls a greeting and the gnome exits to greet the rogue.  Not knowing Cirrus and not trusting him, Abalaba tells the warlock to remain where he is, while she and Patches head into her office.  Patches fences the Alchemists lockbox to Abalaba in exchange for more poisons.  They both try to unlock the thing but have no luck, the gnomish engineering of the lock defeating their skills.  That is until Patches stuffs the keyhole with a blackpowder charge and simply blows the lock.  Cirrus runs in thinking there's trouble, but is quickly put at ease.  They leave a few minutes later with their goods and head back to The Hopping Hair to meet up with the group.

Back at the inn, the group reconvenes with Tark bringing along two guards wishing to confirm his story.  The guards are quickly put at ease by the group and head out after being convinced nothing foul is afoot.  Afterwards, Tark relays his escapades and the barkeep overhears, concerned about infiltrators.  Once the whole story is out though, the Dwarven barkeep realizes that there was no ill intent and explicitly tells the monk that this is the farthest east gate and the network will not take him to his imprisoned master.  He berates the monk for his escapades and then leaves to continue tending the inn.  The group then takes a few hours rest, before Patches call on each of them.  Knowing the cycle of the moon, Cirrus knows what's coming and swears to assist Patches any way he can.  Once Patches begins explaining her need to the group, they all remember her need to cleanse herself of the cursed weapon she bears and each of them agree to assist.

The group heads to the surface, to the ruined cathedrals and the hallowed ground within.  Approaching the plaza, they are unsure of which temple to pick, until Buumi confidently strides forwards to the ruined temple of Helm and the group follows.  Inside the skeletal remains of the cathedral, the altar of white stone remains intact and Patches sets up her ritual there, the full moon beaming down upon her and glittering off the gemstones of her ritual.  Cirrus assists, lighting incense and beginning a ritual of his own to further hallow the area.  Expecting trouble, the rest of the group takes up positions around the altar and begin their wait.  Patches begins her ritual, smashing each gemstone atop the cursed dagger with an enchanted mallet, reciting an oath to Elistraee.  As the last hags tooth is shattered upon the blade, Stabby too shatters and an explosion of mist and frost radiates from the altar, covering everything in opaque whiteness.  As the mist clears, everything glitters in the moonlight and the black carapace of a Drider is visible standing atop the altar, with the face of Patches.  Faced with her greatest fear, Patches recoils as the beast attacks.  The group leaps in to assist, but with each weapon blow against the Drider-patches, the blood splatter spawns a host of swarming spiders.  Dealing heavy damage to the Drider, it seems to ignore everyone but Patches and presses it's attack, assaulting and poisoning the rogue with a flurry of attacks.  Retreating, Patches throws down a card from her deck of illusions, summoning a goblin that begins hollering and hopping in place.  The group turns to deal with the swarms, smashing, burning and blasting them to oblivion, but with each strike against the drider, more are spawned.  A shout goes up from the entrance to the cathedral and a female Dwarven Cleric - Nora, Gundren's cousin - rushes in to assist, healing Patches of her poison and then going to assist Fey'Anon and Gundren.  With the poison cleared from her system, Patches rushes at her greatest fear, drawing the Luck Blade and Strahd's Rapier.  In a blinding display of swordsmanship, her and the Drider exchange blow after blow, each deflecting the other in a shower of sparks.  That is, until Patches finds her mark, lunging and stabbing right through her Drider-doppleganger's heart.  The monster crumbles to the ground and the swarms of spiders disappear suddenly.  The whole place covered in frost and glittering under the light of the moon.  Nora, the cleric, asks if there's any more she can do to help and the group gets suspicious and when she winks at them, her eyes going green and cat-like, they know they have been tricked.  Tark rushes forward to attack, striking The Leanansidhe as the Archfey takes her true form, that of a beautiful red-headed Eladrin.   She paralyzes Tark with a touch and then addresses the group, saying that her debt with Patches is repayed, but that Gundren and Fey now owe her.  She then leaves in a flurry of snow and a blast of wind before anyone can refute her and the group is left wondering what the Archfey might have in store.

Over the Altar, the shards of the cursed weapon melt into a pool of Mercury, slowly forming into a disk of the glittering liquid.  The group turns to it and notes Patches being drawn to it.  As she approaches, the disk begins to levitate from the altar, casting light across the cathedral and bathing Patches, who begins to glow as her hair lengthens.  Levitating up to meet the disk, Patches reaches into the liquid metal, up to her shoulder and pulls out a glittering Obsidian blade that forms from the liquid.  Her form becomes more lithe, her hair grows exceptionally long and her very skin and eyes glow with a rich lustre and she slowly floats back to the ground, now bound to Elistraee by her new weapon.  As the weapon finishes forming, a single drop of mercury hits the altar again and bursts into flame. Cirrus looks into the fire and know what he must do, taking the remains of the tooth fairy, and the teeth he has on him and casting them into the fire...

The blue flame shoots across the intervening space and lances into Cirrus' eyes, blinding the warlock and burning out his eyes.  The group rushes to their friend and discover that he has been permanently blinded, his flesh and blood eyes replaced by chrome orbs.  Despondent and depressed, the group returns to the tavern, Patches now bonded to a goodly goddess, and Cirrus being seemingly punished for his past transgressions.

The group remains in Sundabar for the next month.  Buumi, Fey and Gundren spend their time working on the prosthetic arm and over the course of the month, craft an item of wonder - a metal cap and brace affixed to Buumi's stump that generates a glowing, humming hand of energy upon command; not unlike a Mage's Hand.  Buumi tears up and thanks his friends and the Dwarven enchanter for their help, feeling some of the weight of Barovia lift from his shoulders.  Tark spends the time training in the military wards, drawing quite a following by the end of his stay as he becomes a regular sight for the training Dwarves, many trying their hand against him in the ring.  Patches makes regular trips to the Uppercity to practice with her revolver, returning to the forgemaster for more bullets when needed and exploring the power of her new weapon in private contemplation.  Cercei follows her dad around, trains with Patches a bit, sleeps and eats her way through the month.  Meanwhile, Cirrus spends the whole time locked in his own room, not seeing anyone.  Everyone tries to console him, Patches even stops by to offer to smoke with him, but everyone is turned away.  Eventually, the month draws to a close and the full moon rises once again, and that night Cirrus has some vivid dreams.

The warlock is visited by visions, seeing several figures.  A halfling, pulling teeth from a corpse and licking the blood from them in Neverwinter.  A human mage in red robe, transmuting a heart into a cascade of teeth in Thay.  An Elven Samurai in the far east, killing many warriors and having his retainers rip the teeth from the corpses.  A Derro in the underdark, collecting teeth from corpses on the edge of a battlefield...  Cirrus wakes with a start, knowing that he must find these warlocks of Cerregorach and convert, or kill them.  Blinking his metallic eyes awake, he finds that he can see again, but not in color but in starlight instead. He exits his room for the first time in weeks and heads down to breakfast where the group enthusiastically greets him, noting he's finally put on a little weight.  They all marvel at the new sight bestowed upon him and remark that the test is just beginning for him, which he reluctantly agrees to.  The group hears that the weather has finally broken and the blizzard that had been raging for the last week has finally stopped and decide to make their way through the Under-road to Silverymoon, both Fey and Buumi making it clear they have business there. Gundren's brothers decide to remain in Sundabar with their kin and set up a permanent shop, bidding their brother farewell and hoping he visits soon.  The group departs the Dwarven Citadel and after many miles of well defended, lit and constructed tunnel, they make their way to the surface and get their first view of the beautiful city.

Ringed in silver walls, with metallic towers, columned buildings and a great many majestic trees - all with two feet of snow over all of it - Silverymoon is enchanting.  The group trudges a quarter mile to an inn along the Sundabar road, their mounts and wagon having a relatively easy time of it on this section of well travelled road (even in this weather) and stop for the evening at the Elven Inn.  The group heads inside to enjoy a meal and book some rooms, but find the cuisine to be meat-lite, which disappoints Buumi, Tark and Gundren.  They decide to pull out the ewer of feasting and use it to generate a mighty feast, to the chagrin of the tavern owner, and the group enjoys the evening meal before retiring for the night.
