---
title: "The Bog - Session 11"
chapter: 4
chapterTitle: "The Bog"
session: 11
---

Patches looks down onto the city and witnesses the mist begin to flow into the Docks.  As this is happening Gundren and Tark rush out from the ToD and onto the street and begin asking questions about how they got there and what had happened while they were asleep.  The group fills in the newcomers just as the sounds of battle erupt from down by the docks. Above, patches sees the water boil and writhe as an undead horde erupts from the water and flows into the nearby city, meeting staunch defenders in brutal combat.  Everything and anything that had ever died along the seafloor seems to be marching on the defenders of the city.

Patches calls down and with alarm, relays what she sees.  The mist suddenly begins to rise up again, obscuring long sightlines and a moment later, a host of specters assaults the group from out of the mist.  Several of the group are also assaulted mentally and possessed by ghosts.  The group and the nearby Paladin and his men quickly rally and counterattack, destroying many specters and one of the group wresting their mind back under control -expelling the ghost.  The Paladin and his men attack one of the ghosts, but it mortifies one, aging him rapidly and scares another of the footsoldiers away.  The last ghosts are expelled from Tark and Gundren and quickly destroyed.  As the group recovers from the surprise attack - the Paladin healing the worst injuries - the eyes of the group are drawn skywards, to an appearing golden figure, high above the city, floating over the water of the docks. 

Kangaxx raises his hands and a tear in reality appears over his head, getting wider, revealing a starlit nebula filled void.  In the center of the window, is a dark circle, a dark unlit planetoid .  As the group notices, a wave of cold washes over them and they feel a vast and alien mind weighing upon them.  Fey'anon's mind buckles slightly from the brush of the vast consciousness.  A flash of orange light and a meteor streaks from the window and smashes into the city a few blocks away from the group.   As the meteor breaches our reality, the window closes and the god-mind's influence fades as quickly as it had come.  The city defenders shake themselves into action, spells flashing out and redirecting from the ground battle into the sky to slam into Kangaxx.  Unphased, the lich floats in a globe of pure invulnerability and begins to return fire, engaging the Mage's guild and likely the Archmage himself.

Panic begins to settle on the group. Cyrrus, never having encountered the powerful Kangaxx is the most affected, he wishes to flee the city post haste.  As half the group wants to flee, and the other half to stay and defend the city, Ysera flutters up to Tarks face and talks into his mind.  She tells him that they have a chance to destroy Kangaxx - to head to the downed Meteor and destroy it as he is connected to it.  Flying up into the sky as a streak of gold, Ysera transforms into her true form, that of an Ancient Golden Dragon and smashes into Kangaxx, knocking him from the sky and into the city below.

Emboldened by the words of an ancient gold Dragon - one of the Disciples of Bahamut.  The group resolves to make their way through the city.  They see another conflict up the street as two monstrously winged bat creatures tear into a squad of guardsmen.  Patches scouts on ahead, climbing the building above the conflict.  In a nearby alley, she spies a burning overturned cart, the corpse of an adventurer and several shambling zombies.  She drops down and quietly pilfers a belt of hill giant strength from the corpse before returning to her vantage, the zombies none the wiser. 

The rest of the group meanwhile crashes into the back of the two bat-beasts, dealing grievous wounds and enchanting one into sleep.  As both are taken to the ground, the soldiers pounce, impaling both with their spears and killing them.

Fey feels the minds of many ghouls beneath their feet and warns the group. They quickly fuse one sewer entrance shut with magic while the other is bottlenecked by the guards, stabbing anything that tries to come up to street level.

Patches surveys the nearby city and sees a place at war.  Undead giants smashing through buildings and into squads.  Three paladins fighting a horde of zombies back to back.  Civilians trying desperately to defend their livelihoods.  Victims, wandering aimlessly or dead in the street.

The group decides that the battle needs to end before it can truly begin and climb onto the rooftops to make their way quickly to the comet crater.  Buumi and Tark need to be convinced that the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few and they reluctantly leave the streets.  Using various skills - mounts, flying, acrobatics etc.  The group leaps from rooftop to rooftop, quickly gaining ground and avoiding the worst combat areas.   Cyrrus spies a group of peasants defending themselves and calls down to them, inspiring them with words of praise of the Moon Goddess Selune.

  As Fey'Anon gallops by a group of peasants, they call out for aid, he brushes their minds and feels the loop of memories signaling a ghost possession.  The dark mage, astride a smoking ethereal steed with the gemstone eyes of his Illithilich mask glittering, raises his hand.   On one finger, a gold band with a ruby brain-shaped gemstone shines and Fey'Anon drives the ghosts from each of their possessed victims, banishing each.

The group makes their way to the final building and they look down into the crater.  They see the signs of battle, but no corpses.  A dark figure shambles out of the mist and into view- a fleshling from the hag coven.  Cyrrus wants nothing to do with it and quickly banishes it from the plane.  The group descends and finds a small squad of Paladins in the shops below, planning their next move.  The group accepts some minor healing and decide to head into the crater and destroy what they find.  The Paladins will hold the rear, protecting the groups flank from any approaching undead.

As the group heads into the crater cautiously, a stiff wind disperses some of the mist and they see a squad of armored and undead city defenders.  The group summons up an illusion to pull them away and the undead march off in the direction of the illusion - the sounds of combat echoing a few moments later as they encounter some city defenders.  The wind clears enough of a view that the group can make out their target - a massive writhing mass of flesh and bodyparts. Even as they watch, a fleshling pulls itself free of the mass and shambles off into the city.  A squad of heavily armored undead stand guard over the Mass and flickering orange lightning arcs around it in a dangerous cloud.  The group prepares themselves for taking on this undead nightmare.
