---
title: Barovia - Session 20
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 20
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "argynvost"
  - "atropos"
  - "baba-lysaga"
  - "chani"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gowain"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "jack-mayer-johnson-mathews"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "moradin"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "rahadin"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
places:
  - "amber-temple"
  - "astral-plane"
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "ethereal-plane"
  - "feanons-tower"
  - "krezk"
  - "old-bonegrinder"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "gwen"
  - "thundercannon"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
---

Grey-black ash drifts down from the dark sky, laying thick about the abbey and town of Krezk.  Patches slumps back against the well in the courtyard, blood oozing from several wounds as she catches her breath and rubs are her stinging eyes, averting her gaze from a battered Tark and the Ashbringer sword.  Fey and Cirrus both look at one another, sharing a telepathic message and begin to sort the aftermath of the battle.  Cirrus walks to Patches and Tark and begins to assist them in bandaging and healing while Fey begins to flip through his spellbook to his teleportation circle.  The mists swirl in a corner, and from the veiling fog steps Gundren and his mechanical pet.  Their confusion lasts only a second as the magic of Barovia fills in the gaps of peoples memory, making the sudden appearance fade quickly from their minds.   Seeing Peytr's mighty Obsidian axe, gundren moves in to investigate it and gets out his equipment to determine the nature of the artifact.  A few moments later, Gundren snaps his book closed with a sigh and dons a pair of heavy leather welding gloves, picking up the heavily cursed ax.  Trying to decide what to do with it, the group decides to use Cirrus' bag of devouring and simply toss the artifact into the bag, casting it adrift in the astral plane.

  The sounds of cheering reach up to the ash-covered heroes and Tark heads to the edge of the courtyard, looking down the 150ft cliff to the walled village below.  Beneath him, he sees several score people with their arms raised in praise, cheering for the people that destroyed the Wild Hunt.  Tark holds Ashbringer aloft, it's light shining and refracting through the crystal blade of the greatsword and proclaims that the time of Barovia's salvation is at hand - at which point the crowd cheers all the louder.  A rumbling, like thunder, draws the attention of Patches and Fey, and they look across the misty valley to the snow covered slopes of Mt. Ghakis, only to see a massive avalanche cascading down the slopes - it appears that Mordenkainen was successful in his mission to destroy The Amber Temple.  Fey swears under his breath, distraught at the loss of the library there, but quickly goes back to his spell preparations, but is distracted again as the whole group feels a pulse of dark energy.  Like a sub-audible beat on an unimaginably large drum, a shockwave of energy ripples across the land, emanating from Castle Ravenloft.

  Tark looks down upon the crowd and notes that more than half have stopped their cheering and now look over in the direction of the castle.  Then, all hell breaks loose.  Over half of the villagers turn on their fellow townsfolk in a feral rage.  Wives strike out at husbands, children at parents, and in a flash of insight, Tark realizes that the Hollows - the soulless denizens of Barovia - have turned on those with souls, commanded to slay all the living of Barovia.  Screams reach up to the group and Tark turns a pleading gaze upon his friends.  Fey is busy creating a means of egress, Patches is still badly wounded and Cirrus tells Tark that in their current state, they cannot save the town.  Finding the response unacceptable, Tark asks how long he has before the teleport is ready and is told "three minutes".  "Then I will be back in three minutes" Tark proclaims, and then leaps down the cliff face to the village below.  With his monk training, and great magical leaps from his ring, Tark easily makes it to the village below and sets about saving as many villagers as he can.  Taking out legs, knocking temples and generally being as non-lethal as he can, Tark manages to create some breathing room for a young woman and guardsman, but all around, villagers are being torn apart and the Hollows are quickly outnumbering the survivors.  Patches heads over to Fey and begins rummaging through his bag of holding, until she finds the heavy crossbow.  She and Grundren get to the edge of the courtyard, high above and begin shooting their weapons, doing what they can to provide cover from Tark and the small pocket of survivors as they head to the base of the cliff.  unhappy with the range, Patches scales down the cliff a good fifty feet to get a better shot, but has a hard time distinguishing targets in the fray when all the villagers look the same.  She takes a shot, putting a heavy quarrel through the skull of an old lady, beating a child to death with her cane.  Tark looks up sharply, unsure whether they should be using deadly force, and glares at the Drow, who simply shrugs.  Gundren, his cannon not particularly suited to being non-lethal, takes a mans leg at the knee, giving Tark the space he needs to make an escape.  Tark, two guardsmen, a young woman and the town Burgomaster back up to the cliff, putting it to their backs as a riots worth of hostiles sprint towards them and high above, Gundren throws down a rope, the other end firmly secured by the mechanical lion. patches webs the female guard and begins to pull her to safety, but as the woman is ascending, a thrown brick cracks into her skull, killing her.  Tark then holds off the press of feral villagers as the three remaining survivors grab onto the rope and begin to be pulled up the cliff side by the party.

  The feral townsfolk begin throwing bricks, stones, roof shingles and anything else they can get, at the three ascending survivors.  Tark leaps into the air, deflecting as many of the missiles as he can, but several get past him, smashing into the survivors, two of which are hit badly enough to be knocked senseless and lose their grip on the rope.  Seeing this, Patches rushes across the small ledge she was standing on, grabbing out and snatching the falling Burgomaster by his jacket collar and grabbing the rope, saving him.  Tark leaps up the cliffside, grabbing the other falling survivor before they could fall far.   Looking down, Patches sees the Hollows get to the base of the cliff.  Not wanting company, the Drow tosses down an armed lightning trap which is almost instantly triggered, killing a swath in an explosion of crackling energy.  Finally reaching the courtyard of the Abbey with the survivors, Fey announces the teleportation circle complete and the group piles into it, veritably dragging the stunned and shocked village survivors - all three of them... With an effort of will and a flash of arcane energy, the group vanishes from the ruins of Krezk as far below, the feral villagers begin climbing the cliff to get up to the party.

   The group blinks the light from their eyes, and finds themselves facing the ruins of Argynvostholt. With the "sun" rising, the roiling clouds of Barovia take on a slightly reddish hue above the collapsed manor house.  Wondering what had happened to the magnificent manor house, the group moves in to investigate several large blast marks and determine that a summoned storm blasted Argynvostholt to rubble.  The group and the three survivors of Krezk settle in for a short rest, taking four hours to bandage wounds, eat some food, meditate and take stock of their supplies.  During that time, the survivors of Krezk thanks the group for saving them but still have no idea what happened or why, they are still very much in shock from the event.   Fey takes up one of Morden's sending stones and sends a message to the archmage.  With a yawn, Morden responds, mentioning that he's magically drained and recuperating from his assault on The Amber Temple.  Fey grumbles about the loss of knowledge there and Morden sighs and recounts that he checked the library there for Fey and found that none of the books could be removed and the spells contained within had been changed slightly, making their results suspect. Fey accepts that maybe the destruction was necessary and asks that Morden send a rested Buumi to them as the survivors of Krezk are sent to safety.  Just before Morden goes back to his rest, Tark takes the stone and asks Morden to be present in the battle against Rahadin and Strahd.  Mordenkainen assures the monk that he will be there and is preparing for the battle even now. 

   Fey completes another teleportation circle, and as the villagers disappear in a flash of energy, the broad, armored form of Buumi stands in their place.  Tark hugs Buumi in a great leaping embrace.  Buumi removes the faceplate of his helmet and thanks the group for saving him.  Buumi moves in to hug patches but she withdraws, shaking his hand awkwardly instead, which he accepts with a touch of disappointment.   The group takes a look at the map and decide to split up to head to the ruins of Berez - the lair of Baba Lysaga.  Patches decides to take the direct route, descending he mountainside directly down to the ruins in the swamp, while the others and mounts take the more circuitous route along the road after a shorter climb down. 

   Patches descends with grace and agility, easily making it to the ruined town of Berez, at which point she begins scouting the outskirts of town.  Approaching the long rotted out forms of stone cottages, rising up from the fetid swamp, Patches notes a flicker of movement, but cannot see it's source.  All around, in the center of the town, she spies the dead forms of many werewolves - the pack the group convinced to move on Baba Lysaga.  Clearly their attack failed.  Moving cautiously, Patches circles the town, approaching a long defunct and overgrown graveyard which at one end, has an old and crumbling church spire.  Just as Patches is about to sneak over the wall and into the graveyard, she hears a low growl and she freezes, looking around.  Not thirty feet away, behind a gravestone and looking into the center of the swampy ruined village, is a blurry shape.  Unsure what she's looking at, Patches gives it a wide berth and sets up numerous traps at the bottom of the church tower before ascending it to get a better view of the village.  Ascending the tower, Patches makes it halfway before the age of the tower almost betrays her - a brick coming lose under her hand and beginning to tumble.  Patches elvish reflexes save her from betraying her position as she catches the brick before it can tumble past her.  Breathing a sight of relief, Patches continues up without incident and settles in atop the tower, getting a fantastic view of the misty swamp swallowing the ruins of the ancient village.  Patches takes her time viewing the area, making several sketches and noting several sets of ruined cottages before some movement in the mist in the center of town catches her eye.  Focusing, Patches notes a huge form moving in the mist - that of a large stump, atop which sits a ramshackle stone cottage - but the entire above is animate and shifting atop root-like legs.  At the base of the strange animate structure, is a crucifix, but from her distance Patches cannot make out the figure strung up on the cross...

  Several miles up the road, the rest of the group finishes descending the mountainside to the old ruined path to Berez, it's mossy cobblestones broken by patches of water and roots.    Twenty minutes later, the group finds themselves about a mile from Berez, surrounded by old trees in the ominous swamp and the road broken up by the swamp to such a degree as to be all but lost.  Ahead of them, through the thick mists, Buumi, Cirrus, Gundren, Fey and Tark see four figures blocking their path.  The band of vampire adventurers, the servants of Strahd and compatriots of Gowain, stand blocking the path.  Stepping forwards, Kenga - the dwarven cleric - greets the group, saying that he and his fellows are commanded to slay them, though they do not want to, they cannot disobey the will of Strahd.  Kenga looks to Tark and reminds the monk of their deal, that they are to slay him and free him from his waking nightmare.  Hefting the glowing crystal sword, Tark nods at the fallen cleric, assuring him that that time has come just as a globe of darkness is dropped over the monk and the vampires spread out to engage the party.  Activating the magic of his blindfold, Tark sees through the darkness and spots his target - Kenga, shadowstepping behind the cleric and delivering a flurry of blows.  Much to the monks surprise, the nearby Vampire; Growland, manages to reach out and parry one of the strikes meant for Kenga.  Lelrin, the vampire ranger starts taking shots at the group, firing a veritable stream of arrows.  Cirrus, drops into a crouch and vanishes with invisibility and begins making his way over to Lelrin, splashing and sloshing through the swamp and though she notices the movement, still has a hard time hitting the warlock with arrows.  Buumi and the mechanical lion - Gwen - rush forwards to engage the vampire Growland, smashing him with claw and hammer as Gundren lays down fire and Fey fires blast after blast of arcane energy into the vampires.  Tark hits Kenga a half dozen times, causing the vampire dwarf to fall to his knees.  Tark moves in for the killing blow, and just before it falls hears the Dwarf speaking a prayer to Moradin and hoping to see him and his kin soon, and in one swift strike takes the head from the Vampire.  The darkness covering Tark disappears in an instant, just before the body of Kenga crumbles to ash.  Beerna, the Vampire barbarian lets out a roar for her fallen comrade and wades in to Tark, raining greatsword strikes down on the monk, wounding him badly.  Unfazed and with the power of Ashbringer, Tark batters the barbarian badly until she casts aside her sword and sweeps the halfling monk up in a crushing bear hug and bites into his neck with her fangs, drawing upon his very life force...  Growland is killed quickly by Gwen, Gundren, Fey and Buumi, but his spirit escapes as his body crumbles to ash.  Farther away, Cirrus has managed to get close to Lelrein, despite taking several stinging arrows, and slips his bag of devouring over her head, at which point she is bitten by it and begins to be devoured.  Tark manages to break free from Beerna by shadowstepping behind her, and with a mighty strike from the crystal greatsword, she detonates in a sunburst which causes Lelrin to combust as well.

  The party regroups and takes a moment to catch their breath, bandaging wounds and casting some healing spells, knowing that Baba Lysaga is just up ahead.  Tark tries to mentally connect with the spirit of his sword and finds that it is satisfied to have truly destroyed those vampires, freeing them from their enslavement and torment - a sentiment that Tark wholeheartedly agrees with.  Buumi walks over to Tark and rests a hand on his friends shoulder and raising his visor, smiles down at his diminutive friend, assuring him that they just did a good deed in slaying the vampire adventurers.  Tark nods his agreement and wraps Ashbringer back in it's silk cover and hands it to Buumi for safe keeping, a task Buumi reverently accepts.  Tark takes point as the group heads towards Berez, the Staff of the Dragon King in the diminutive monk's hands once more.  The group makes it to the edge of Berez without incident and contacts Patches.

  Patches is shaken out of her reveries atop the old church tower by the mental buzz of Gundrens Sending Stone, which she quickly responds to, finding out about the battle the group had on the way here.  Patches relays what she has seen, the blurry forms waiting in ambush, the large shifting animated hut and the crucified figure in the center of town.  The group sneaks in as far as they can get and peer through the mist of the swamp and ruins and see Baba Lysaga's animated hut shifting on large root legs.  At the base of the structure, they too see the crucifix, but from their angle, they can make out the figure upon it and realize it to be the lone surviving Night Hag from the battle at The Old Bonegrinder.  Tark decides to sneak in for a closer look as the group fans out, gaining a better vantage on the hut in case of an ambush - which they are pretty sure is coming.   Tark makes it to the hut and crucified figure without incident, despite splashing through the mud and water of the swamp.  On the outskirts however, Patches has descended from her perch and recovered her traps and she notes the blurry enemy from earlier take note of something and move up closer - the beast, has spotted Tark but restrained itself from charging...Patches decides to begin moving in towards the group and manages to pick her way across solid ground to the animated hut.  Swatting away biting insects, Tark makes it to the crucified figure of the Night Hag and notes that she's not dead.  Tark calls up to the Night Hag - Ophelia - who spits on the halfling monk and glares at him, but otherwise does nothing.  Thinking it odd, but simply shrugging it away, Tark climbs the roots of the animated hut and sneaks to one of the open windows, peeking inside.   Inside the hut is quite a sight.  The hut itself is rather small, no more than twenty foot square and filled with old and crumbling furniture.  In the center of the hut however is a beautiful baby crib, in which sits a cherubic baby boy, the sight of which clashes harshly with the horror of the rest of the place.  The floor, walls and ceiling of the hut are covered in body-parts, bones and grisly trophies and against one wall lies a huge Iron tub in which bathes a simply breathtaking woman of staggering beauty.  The woman is bathing in a tub of blood, the ichor covering her nakedness in a crimson film.  Tark is taken aback and is caught staring at her, mouth agape as the young beauty turns her head toward him and smiles.  Tark immediately ducks down out of sight and hears a chuckle from the woman inside, after which Baba Lysaga calls Tark by name, inviting him into her abode.  Tark moves over to the door and knocks, receiving another invitation inside, Tark steps through the door and meets Baba Lysaga - the beautiful woman having stepped from the tub and donned a robe.  Curious, Cirrus moves up to the hut, climbing it and observing in through the window.  Buumi and Fey also make their way to the hut, but notice several blurred forms moving, surrounding the perimeter of the area.  Looking upon the beauty of Baba Lysaga, Cirrus is taken in by her looks, finding himself doubting her role in the nightmares here and forming strong feelings of protectiveness and trust toward the young woman.  Wondering what's happening, Fey touches Cirrus' mind, asking what he sees, only to be reassured emphatically by the warlock that Baba Lysaga cannot possibly be a threat to them.  Meanwhile, Tark has engaged the witch in conversation.

   Inside the hut, Baba Lysaga has settled in next to the crib and baby and has begun to fawn over the child.  Tark asks the witch about the child and determines that she thinks it to be Strahd and that she refers to it as her child yet also sings praises of the man Strahd has turned into.  Tark feels the wrongness of this place and upon close inspection, notices Baba Lysaga's fingers not quite touching, or clipping through the child and realizes it to be an illusion.  Thinking it fun, Tark summons light and shadow to himself, creating a small illusion of another of the exact same baby and places it in the crib with the other, an action that causes Lysaga's face to turn stony at the perceived insult.  The rest of the group at this point has moved in close, with Patches making it to the window across from Cirrus and Fey and Buumi making it to the hut on the other side as well.  As Buumi gets close to Cirrus and whispers up to get the attention of the warlock, the protective auras of the paladin wash over Cirrus, freeing him from the glamour of the witch.  Cirrus quickly tells Fey to disregard every good word he said about Baba Lysaga and warns the group that the witch in the hut is actively charming them.  Buumi, down in the swamp beneath the lumbering animated hut, looks around into the swampy mist, growing uneasy - the group has been drawn out to a central location and are exposed.  Up in the hut, Tark gets to the point of their visit, that for her crimes against the people of Barovia and the corruption of Strahd, Baba Lysaga will not be leaving the valley and returning to the material world.  Lysaga scoffs at the young, grizzled monk and assures him that she will grind their bones to flour and use their flesh for her stews, she tells them to do their worst, and vanishes - the programmed illusion having fulfilled it's purpose.  High above the hut, in the mists of the swamp and floating atop a disembodied giant skull, the true Baba Lysaga reveals herself.  As monstrous as the illusion was beautiful, she is a hulking form atop the skull - with long skinny arms, far too long for a human and tipped with dirty claws, an Elk skull covering her head and with huge antlers, between which stretch the flayed skin of humans and dirty black robes from which dangle dozens of grisly trophies and fetishes - Baba Lysaga, the high priestess of The Night Mother (Atropos) attacks...

  Gesturing with a bony claw of a hand, Baba Lysaga draws necrotic power to her, and sends it flashing towards Cirrus; a finger of death.  Fey steps forwards and with a surge of arcane power, raises his staff in both hands, deflecting the deadly spell from hitting his friend in a flash of sickly green light, the spell careening off into the swamp.  Patches rushes forward, hurling a small throwing knife into the hag's side, poisoning and paralyzing Lysaga for an instant - long enough for Patches to web up to the skull and slam her dagger deep into the witches side.  Letting out a cry of fury, Baba bats Patches from the floating platform as the skull circles around the group a good thirty feet off the ground.  She strikes out at Fey with a blast of cold, encrusting his arm in ice.  With his staff though, Fey manages to mitigate most of the damage and quickly shatters the encasing ice.  Howls go up around the group and blurry forms begin sprinting towards them through the mists, just as a huge boulder sails through the air, clipping Buumi and the form of the giant simian Genoskwa flickers into view for a moment before it steps behind a tree, disappearing from sight.  Cirrus swears, remembering that the corpse of the Genoskwa had simply vanished last time they fought it, and looses eldritch blasts upon the floating Lysaga, just as she summons swarms of biting insects to harass Buumi and Tark.   With another wave of her hand and staff, Baba Lysaga animates several of the dead werewolves, raising them as zombies to do her bidding.  The blurry forms from the edge of town rush in to attack the group, and as they get close, resolve into twisted animal shapes; that of aberrant druids mixing animal parts and anatomy.  One rushes Patches from behind as she gracefully lands from being thrown by Lysaga, but she nimbly dodges out of it's way, counterattacking viciously.  Two druids rush onto the animated hut, one stopping to rip bits of wood from the huge animated stump and creating a small swarm of twig-blights.  The night hag on the crucifix pulses with energy and turns ethereal, drifting off of the crucifix and descending beneath the mud of the swamp.  Lysaga hurls a hand forward, and another spell is launched at the group - this time a flash of fire races toward them.  Once again, Fey raises his staff and smashes the small fiery orb from the air with a word and exertion of power, showering the area in a hail of sparks and embers as he counters the fireball.  Lysaga screams in rage and points a finger at Cirrus, blasting him with cold.  Having had quite enough of these deadly spells, and noting Fey breathing heavily from the magical exertion of countering the witch, Cirrus takes his staff of power and smites it upon the wood of the animated hut.  The top of the staff flashes with azure light and a sphere of shimmering blue energy encases Buumi, Tark, Cirrus and Fey in a globe of invulnerability.  Seeing a safe area being created, Patches lashes out at the Druid attacking her and kicks it's legs out, rushing to the hut to begin climbing it but falls unceremoniously into the mud as she slips on the mossy animated roots.  Making a disgusted sound, Patches regains her footing and whirls on the recovering druid, pulling her flintlock pistol from it's holster and shooting the druid in it's face just as it sits up from the swampy water.  The twisted monster's head explodes as the lead shot rips through it, dropping it dead into the mud.  Gundren rushes over beneath the animated hut, Gwen at his side, just as a boulder thrown by the Genoskwa smashes into the poor dwarf, knocking him senseless as the beast chuckles.  The huge form of the Genoskwa once again flickers out of view, but the group notes it's concealing magic having a hard time with the rippling water beneath it's feet.  Buumi and Tark engage a fourth Druid along with swarms of biting insects, Buumi smashing the druid repeatedly with his mighty hammer as Tark evades the giant biting insects. Cirrus and Fey look on with approval, just as one of the druids makes the window and slashing claws reach out for Fey but miss.  Ophelia, the Night Hag rises up through the floor beneath cirrus and whispers enchanted words of sleep into his ear, not knowing that Cirrus is incapable of sleep due to his pact with the Moon Goddess.  Cirrus turns to Ophelia, un-phased and simply cocks an eyebrow at the Hag, who recoils in shock at her failure.  Rising from the water, bleeding and swearing loudly, Gundren loads birdshot into his thundercannon and shreds two of the swarms of insects, freeing Tark who quickly closes on Baba Lysaga.  Lysaga, who had circled to put her hut between her and her enemies, sees Tark shadowstep to the crucifix and launch from it in a mighty leap.  Having recovered Ashbringer from Buumi, Tark smashes into the floating skull and cleaves it in two, Lysaga falling from her perch high above the swamp as the monk sails on by, his momentum taking him further.  As Lysaga falls from the air screaming in rage, the hut on which half the group is taking refuge (the other half beneath it's legs) shudders ominously and begins to move...
