---
title: "Neverwinter - Session 1"
chapter: 2
chapterTitle: "Neverwinter"
session: 1
---

Breaking camp early, Lothli heads out north on her horse, cresting a small hill about an hour after sunrise, seeing the city of Neverwinter sprawling out before her.  Crowds are already gathering for the day, coming from nearby hamlets to enjoy the Refounding festival.  As Lothli trots her horse towards the gates, the box opens and Tark leaps forth.  One by one, the group members hop out of the box, startling the horse.  Buumi gives some backstory on the city, the refounding festival and points out the long dormant Volcano overlooking the city. Buumi also mentions he is the Nephew of the Lord of the City - Lord Dagult Neverember.

As the group approaches the gates, they stop to decide where they want to go first, Buumi determines they should head straight to the Keep.  Lothli, mentioning her disdain for crowds heads off to the woods to chill for a few days. The group heads in, with Patches hiding her Drow nature.

As the group flags down a wagon to take them across the city, they notice they have been followed by a small and very fat dirty halfling.  Having nowhere to go, they let him tag along.  He tells them he is a chimney sweep from the Shadowfell city of Gloomwrought and he was cursed to constantly eat.  At that, patches mentions she too is cursed and pulls forth her cursed dagger, causing nausea in the group.

Crossing the city, the group notices the festival in the park around Bluelake and the massive pavillion of the famed Sha'Alazzi.  The Driver mentions that it celebrates the independence of the city from the assault of the Thayans and the oppression of the Netherese.  The group notices the Wicked Wyvern Bridge as they cross it.

Arriving at the Keep, the group heads inside to the audience chamber of Lord Neverember, passing the statue of the now dead Jelvis Grinch.  Barging inside, they walk up to the Lord and his Archmage - Jeckeyll, a Halfling female, having a conversation with a dark shade that proclaimed it and Thay had nothing to do with the undead mists before dissapearing. Tark then rudely introduces himself to the Lord as the Lord nods a greeting of recognition to Buumi.

The group tells them of their exploits, with Cragmaw, the mists, hag den and the killing of Venomfang.  Jeckeyll is fascinated by the little Jade Golem.  The Lord is impressed with the groups exploits and offers to reward them for the destruction of Venomfang…twice, giving the group 2000g.  They discuss the mists and the dracolich and hags, wondering if Thay is behind it with another dread ring.  He mentions that the Dragon had flown into the city, startling everyone but then disappeared down into the chasm - which they all thought was sealed by spells.  The Lord and Jeckeyll wish to hire the group to head down into the Chasm and see what happened to the Dragon down there that may have caused it or given it the power to change into a Dracolich.  They bid the group hold off for a few days while Jeckeyll does some research on the magical barrier, the possible Thayan threat and the incidents of undeath. 

Lord Neverember gives the group a writ of patronage and has them found the Spellforged Adventuring Company - which can now accept questing contracts from bounty boards.  The group decides to go and enjoy the refounding festival while Jeckeyll investigates the Chasm Barrier and follows up on Thay, she says she will get them in a few days for the next part of their quest.

As the Group is leaving the keep, a call from behind them has them turning to see Lorde - JmJm's most hated rival. A small sexy bard with Gronk, her hulking muscle bound barbarian backup singer.  The group notices their matching gender-symbol earrings.  Lorde verbally puts down JmJm before challenging to see him on the bards stage of the festival.

Then group heads to the moonstone mask inn, which they get to via portal.  Inside they see other adventurers milling around, accepting contracts.  JmJm immediately enters and begins playing over the local bard, forcing him to stop as the other patrons vastly prefer JmJm.  Buumi wastes no time getting drunk.  Fey'Anon looks for then best looking wizard in the place and spots the Gold toothed smile of Kangaxx, who waves him over. As Fey and Kangaxx are talking, the rest of the group heads over to hear his tail.  He tells the group of his teeth and that he and his group found some ancient ruins down in the Chasm, but they triggered a trap of some sort which transfigured his companions into gold, he saved himself, but not before his teeth were turned to gold.  He asks the group if they can rescue his companions, and in exchange, anything they have on them is theirs.  The group agrees.

Patches then decides it's her turn to get something done and bee-lines it towards to Temple of Oghma, the group following interested.  They make it to the grand temple and into the massive foyer of the beautiful library.  They are approached by a Cleric, but Patches has dissapeared, but re-appears seconds later dressed as a Knight of Baldurs Gate, in full regalia.  The Cleric fetches a high priest to see to the Knights needs.  Being shown the seriousness of Patches cursed dagger, the high priest takes the group to a summoning chamber and summons a celestial messenger, a Deva to tell Patches how to cleanse the dagger.  She must find several ingredients (Black Opal, Moonstone Dust, Enchanted Mithril mallet, Hags tooth) and perform a ritual to draw out the Hag in the dagger and slay it under a full moon.

The group, then decides to go shopping.  They head towards the refounding festival around the Bluelake.  As they enter the park, they come across a druid that asks them for help in communicating with the Mermen that have taken up residence there. Tark decides to swim in to try and find them, but cannot hold his breath long enough.  JmJm verbally accosts the druid and he leaves in a huff, but asks Dr. B to return to him later.

The group heads into the festival proper, heading down a street made of pavillions and tents.  People mill about and shops and stalls are everywhere.  Patches notices one mid sized pavillion in particular, marked by the Theives Cant she recognizes it as a Gambling house, possible for betting on the many tournaments and challenges occurring.

The group pushes on to the biggest pavilion, Sha'Alazzi's magic Emporium and go inside, amazed by the little hooded figures and the Shield Sentinel Golem in the center of the tent. They peruse many items, purchasing a new shield and Plate armor for Buumi, the Black Opal for Patches, a ring of Fire elemental control and boots of warmth, spending more than half their gold.  The Ring is sold by Sha'Alazzi himself as the group asks him about the fire elemental they see in the glass cube, they spend a great deal of time trying to ascertain if the elemental is in anguish…it is not.

Seeming like a powerful and adept band, Sha'Alazzi offers the group a reward for clearing out a Magic Tower he came across from a mage.  He wants it cleared of beasties so he can re-sell it and offers the group two magic items of 2000 gold or less to do it. The group agrees and with a clap of his hands, are transported inside a small Iron tower he indicated on the shelves a moment ago.

The group is in a large circular room, beautifully gilded and marble.  Ahead, by a door that looks like it leads up, two bearded devils turn to face the group…
