---
title: Barovia - Session 21
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 21
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "argynvost"
  - "baba-lysaga"
  - "chani"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "doc"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "ireena"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "rahadin"
  - "selune"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "urwen"
  - "wachter"
places:
  - "amber-temple"
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "sanctum-of-krasus"
  - "tser-pool"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "gwen"
  - "the-reaver"
  - "thundercannon"
factions:
  - "keepers-of-the-feather"
  - "vistani"
---

Battling for their lives, the group hunkers around the animated hut, using it for cover as Tark flies through the air and Baba falls from her destroyed flying skull.  Tark catches himself in the branches of a tree before he can fall back to the ground and arrests his flight, and as he does so, looks back at the falling Baba just as she splits into hundreds of oozing, flying insects.  Patches sees the blur of the Genoskwa, circling them and gestures at the form, summoning the power of her people and casting Faerie fire at the beast.  The fire simply flickers out of existence and Patches swears under her breath, hearing a low guttural chuckle, distorted and with no apparent direction.  Hearing the taunting chuckle, Patches hurls two throwing knives, but both sail off into the mist and in her head, Patches hears the voice of her cursed sword begging to be wielded.   Telling the sword to shut up but ultimately agreeing with it, Patches sheathes her dagger and summons the spectral, cursed blade.  Surprisingly, she finds that the mental spell Mordenkainen gave her is shielding her mind from the worst of the curse and a wry smile lifts up the corner of her mouth.

  The Genoskwa calls to the group, it's voice modulating weirdly, that they failed to kill it the first time and it has learned  the group's tricks.  A rock sails in through the mist, but Patches sees it and ducks, the rock smashing into the hut, causing the thing to lurch and shudder from the impact, knocking the rest of the group from their perch above on the animated hut.  Cirrus falls, flailing wildly, but Buumi hears his cry and manages to catch (one handed) the skinny warlock before hitting the mud and set him down, where Cirrus promptly dives under the hut, into cover as he fires off two Eldritch blasts at the Insect Swarm of Baba Lysaga.  Cirrus tumbles backwards, bouncing down one of the root legs, and though still stunned and unable to focus on anything, he manages to stay on his feet, now ankle deep in swamp.  The druids and needle blights are thrown from the shuddering hut and land in a sprawl, but the Druids get to their mutated feet quickly and as one summons a bank of fog to cover the form of Baba Lysaga and the other rushes in to heal her, emerald light cascading from it's malformed hands.

  Tark dives down out of the tree with a yell and clutching The Ashbringer in both hands strikes mightily for the witch's head.  Hearing the cry, Baba spins in place, raising her hands as a shimmering wall of force shields her from the blow, showering the area with sparks.  Zombies, Druids and Blights quickly rush into the fog cloud to protect their mistress and Buumi sees an opaque fog cloud, in which he knows his friend is about to be overrun. Seeing Cirrus, Patches and Gundren nearby, Buumi decides that Tark needs him more, and begins to glow.  Turning into a golden streak of light, Buumi rushes across the intervening space, getting as close to Tark as he can, and still glowing, calls up an Aura of Vitality to begin healing his friend.

  As Cirrus dives under the hut and looses his attack on Baba Lysaga, the house above him whips a huge root directly toward him.  Seeing the blow coming, Cirrus rolls, managing to avoid a solid strike and gets  clipped instead of solidly hit.  Even clipped by the huge contruct, Cirrus feels ribs break and a horrible welt begin to form all along one side of his torso.  Rolling to his back and looking up at the monstrous animate tree stump, Cirrus lets out a cry and snaps his fingers, banishing the hut in a swirl of magic and distorted, shrinking root-limbs.  Cirrus scrambles to his feet and rushes to another point, diving into a nearby puddle, only to find it about a foot deep.  Finding himself near Tark, Cirrus looks up in time to see the druid that has summoned the fog cloud, spot him and come loping over, growing his claws.

  Meanwhile, on the other side of the now-banished hut, Gwen has bounded forwards to engage the Genoskwa, leaping upon it as the beast steps through a spray of water, becoming temporarily visible.  Despite Gwen trying desperately to bear the huge simian to the ground, the Genoskwa manages to keep her snapping jaws from finding it's throat and throws the mechanical lion off of it...just in time to get shot in the head by a concussive round from Gundren's Thundercannon.  The huge beast tumbles, flopping into the mud just as Patches sprints at it, going into a slide and planting her swords into the creature in a flurry of lightning fast stabs.  The beast howls and swipes massive hands at Patches, who darts back out, just as Gwen darts in, teeth and claws flashing.  Patches notes with some alarm that the wounds she is dealing appear to be healing, even now and just as the Genoskwa flails at the Rogue, Patches ducks a swipe and plants Stabby deep into it's neck.  The Genoskwa howls, a porcine squeal erupting from it's bloody lips. 

  In the fog cloud, Tark swings strike after strike at Baba Lysaga, each one glancing off a shield in a shower of sparks until a powerful lunge manages to shatter the shield and stab deeply into Baba Lysaga's side.  Howling, the witch reaches out and scratches the monk, releasing a pulse of transformative energy and polymorphing Tark into a small Swamp Eel.  Flopping into the mud, the now-eel Tark, sees the witch sag as a malformed shapeshifted druid begins healing her wounds.  Suddenly the armored and glowing form of Buumi plows into the fray with powerful one handed blows of his enchanted hammer.  Surrounded by zombies and blights, Baba manages to rush away from the furious Paladin and out of the fog cloud, where she spot Gundren.  Tark, seeing his friend, slithers over the the battling Paladin and begins contorting his snake-like body into specific repeating shapes.  In a flash of divine insight, Buumi realises his friend and stamps a booted foot onto the Eel, killing it, breaking the enchantment and freeing his friend.  With a triumphant shout, Buumi smashes the skull of a third druid that had rushed at his back, just as the fog cloud dissipates. 

   Cirrus looks up from the wet mud, his eyes going wide as he scrambles back from the slashing claws of the corrupted Druid.  Calling upon Selune, he sends out a cascade of calming energy that floods over all the nearby enemies, and suddenly, this corner of the battlefield goes calm as the druids and zombies stop trying to kill everyone.  Cirrus quickly commands the two druids to heal him and Buumi and uses the zombies to engage and shatter the blights.  Back across the battlefield, Fey, his head still spinning, goes down in a mass of biting insects, his familiar unable to help despite it's attempts to close his wounds.  Seeing this, Tark lets out a cry of panic and shadowsteps to his friend, diving atop his body and forcing a healing potion down his throat while the bugs bite him.

  Baba Lysaga lets out a cackle and throws a searing blast of flame at Gundren, just as the Dwarf is turning from the rapidly dying Genoskwa and manages to catch the fire right in the face.  Coming out of the blast, Gundrens skin is blistered and red and his beard is aflame in patches.  With a cry of pain and rage over his beard being burned, Gundren shoots the witch in response, just as Buumi bounds over the blights and smashes his hammer into her.  Sixty feet away, the rejuvenated Fey points a finger at the reeling Baba Lysaga and with an effort of will and a flash of fire, a bolt of flame detonates, exploding the witch's body and scattering gore across the swamp.  The remaining zombies instantly fall inanimate once more.

  Patches and Gwen have been making short work of the simian giant; The Genoskwa.  Though the beast managed to regain it's feet, only one of it's blows managed to hit Patches, who still managed to dodge most of the strike.  Suddenly, Gwen manages to hamstring the thing, just as a charmed Blight leaps on it's back and sinks it's splintery claws into the beast.  Patches see's her opening and rushes in, getting clipped by a meaty hand and sinks Stabby deeply into it's gut twice.  The Genoskwa falls to it's knees and with trembling arms, grabs Patches around the neck and shoulders, she cocks an arm and stabs her luckblade right through it's eye and into it's head and the thing falls dead at her feet with a wet squelch.  Not content to let the thing regenerate and get up again, Patches reverses her grip on Stabby and plunges the cursed blade into the "dead" creatures chest.  The huge body shakes and vibrates as it is disintegrated and turned to ash.  Breathing hard, patches rises to her feet, and in hear head, Stabby let's out a contented sigh from having consumed such a powerful soul.  

  Looking around the battlefield, only some swarms of biting insects and a couple of blights remain.  Tark and Cirrus make quick work of the insects as Patches walks towards one blight, shooting it with her pistol and whipping her crossbow from her back to shoot another, and silence falls over the swamp with the last enemies slain.  Exhaustion washes over the group as they realize the battle is over, but Cirrus lets out a yelp of panic as he realizes the huge animate hut will re-appear any second and begins to flee.  Thinking it through however, he realizes that without a being to control it, the house would be docile and slides to a quick stop in the mud, and turns to watch the huge thing re-appear in a mass of twisting limbs as it settles back into reality.  Tark tiredly climbs into the hut, to make sure that there was indeed no baby inside, Patches and Fay close behind to check for treasure.

  Tark looks around the decrepit and disgusting hut, grisly trophies hanging from the ceiling above a bone covered floor, but sees no sign of the baby and breathes a sigh of relief.  He does notice though that the green glow he noted below the illusory baby is still shining up from beneath floor boards and bends down to pry up the floor and check.  Brushing away bones, Tark lifts the ancient floor boards and finds three glowing emeralds, each the size of a human's fist.  Fey, who was close behind, sucks in his breath and accepts each stone handed to him from Tark, putting each away in his bag of holding for later use.  Tark then proceeds to leave the hut, his curiosity sated and plops down into the mud, closing his eyes in weariness.  Patches meanwhile has found a small chest under the disgusting "bed" in the hut (more of a nest really...) but notes a tripwire.  Patches relays this information and Cirrus turns to one of the charmed Druids with whom he was quietly conversing and asks him to help Patches.  The charmed druid, now back in his pale, skull-adorned, barbaric human form quickly makes his way into the hut and grabs the chest, picking it up.  The Druid falls onto his face, fast asleep with a sleeping dart in his leg and Patches quickly unlocks the chest.  Handing fey an ancient looking spellbook (which he greedily snatches from her), some scrolls and a handful of potions, Patches picks out two glittering rubies and fastens them into her earrings, pocketing the rest of the chests contents: A number of platinum pieces (200) and several diamonds (3).   Patches looks down at the sleeping druid in disgust and shoves the sleeping man out of the hut, where he flops into the mud, waking with a start.  Cirrus lends the man a hand and then asks that both druids follow him for a moment, which the charmed men agree to readily.

   Finding themselves a little apart from the group and out of direct observation, Cirrus turns to both men and thanks them for their friendship.  They nod and agree that any ally of the master is a friend of theirs.  Cirrus smiles and almost as an afterthought remembers that he has a gift, a reward for such good friends and opens his bag, motioning to the druids to reach inside, which they readily do.   The screams of the men, being devoured by the bag, reach the rest of the group and Tark is woken with a start, looking into the mists with concern.  Cirrus walks out from around a tree and Tark asks where his friends went.  Cirrus responds saying that they left for castle Ravenloft and Tark believes him.

  Fey begins looking over his spellbook to begin a teleportation circle, but finds that he cannot focus, and when he tries to call up his power, gets a splitting headache.  Fey is out of power.  The group contemplates what to do, when they hear the flap of wings and out of the mists several shapes resolve into the humanoid figures of several were-ravens.  Urwen, his wife, brothers and nieces approach the group out of the mists, expressing astonishment and awe that the group managed to kill both Baba Lysaga and The Genoskwa.  Urwen tells the group that they came as quickly as they could, being contacted by Mordenkainen about the battle.  Remembering the archmage, and cursing his weariness, Fey contacts Mordy who sends Stick to collect the group and their allies. Appearing through a Dimension Door and quickly inscribing a teleportation circle into the mud with telekinetic power, Stick teleports the group from the swampy ruins of Berez, back to the warm comfort of Argynvosts Sanctum, and find the place veritably crowded.

  Where treasure was once piled, sits more than a half dozen cots, four of which contain children.  The were ravens thanks the group and then heads to the cots and their children.  Tark and Cirrus flop down into armchairs around the fireplace, opposite Ireena and Ezmereld.  Ireena is gazing into the fire, lost in thought remembering past lives, while Ez meticulously cleans her gear, preparing for a fight.  Over at the huge oak dining table, Mordy is sitting and working on an elaborate alchemy set, occasionally marking down notes as he also looks through his spellbook.  Not looking, he reaches out a hand and Stick zips across the room to it with a telepathic "wheeeee!" echoing in everyone's minds.  As the group settles in to rest, they express their concern over the amount of time before Castle Ravenloft leaves.  Stick and Mordy mention that the group has about 12 hours before Strahd and his army of the dead leave Barovia and everyone present - the sole survivors of Barovia - should be in the castle when it does.  Tark looks on with incredulity, and mentions that he has no intention of letting Strahd leave his prison, but after Mordy relays the plan - that he will adjust the teleport spell to have the castle arrive in a desert at dawn to destroy the undead with sunlight - Tark reluctantly agrees to it.  As the group settles in to rest, Fey feels the entity from The Amber Temple, trapped in his ring reach out to him and shows him images of devastation and death.  The entity then shows Fey that he can survive, with it's help; a promise that Fey - even against his better judgement - cannot ignore... Meanwhile, Patches is deep in her reverie and finds herself in a desolate void, an expanse of darkness save for a single shaft of light and a gorgeous figure.  With crimson hair, milk white skin, green cat eyes and delicately pointed canines, The Lenanshide smiles at Patches.  Lea thanks Patches for feeding her such as soul as The Genoskwa and mentions that despite the fact they have been at odds, it need not be so, she respects Patches power and simply wishes to be free of the cursed blade.  Patches offers to think about her release, and in exchange for a future favor to The Lenanshide, gets some information on Rahadin - that he is not alone and is assisted by a powerful Atropal entity that will shield him from harm... Patches wakes with a start, looking across the room as Cirrus lowers a book and scowls at her for disturbing him.  She mentions what she learned of Rahadin, which Cirrus cocks an eyebrow at, before going back to his book, and Patches resumes her reverie.

  The group takes a long rest, recuperating from the hard battle, but the drain of the last two weeks is finally catching up to them and despite the rest, each awakens exhausted. That is, until Mordy walks around and hands each of them a potion of Vitality.  The group drinks and suddenly finds themselves rejuvenated, devoid of exhaustion and focused on the task at hand - to leave Barovia and stop an army of Vampires, master vampire and corrupted dragon... a daunting task...

  Everyone in the sanctum assembles near the huge oak table, Gundren pouring the silver Ewer of feasting onto the oak and summoning a feast for everyone to partake in.  As everyone grabs a delectable breakfast, Morden asks Fey to assist him with a scrying spell to begin a briefing.  Scrying the castle in the flames of the sanctuary's fireplace, the group sees Castle Ravenloft.  Every surface and every space in it's walls is simply covered with the animated dead.  Bats and specters whirl around the castle in a vortex and atop the main gate, lady Wachter - the necromancer, stands looking out to the valley as the last of the monsters congregate on the castle.  The lightning blasts from the roiling storm above are an almost constant circular curtain of energy and the massive spell is almost ready to be released.  Curious, Fey looks out to the valley and sees The Vistani caravans heading for the borders of Barovia, fleeing the land amidst the burning settlements that once made up the valley.  The group examines their options; how to infiltrate the castle and get to Rahadin and Strahd.  They discover two options: the sewers of the castle that empty at the Tser pool, and a cavern that connects to the Catacombs through which the bat population leaves the castle.  Opting to simply fly up to the catacombs, the group decides the Bat caverns to be their best bet.  Looking upon the castle and the lightning strikes though, they know the end of Barovia is nigh, and they intend to be in the castle, with all their allies and the survivors of the valley before it leaves this cursed demi-plane...
