---
title: Barovia - Session 22
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 22
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "argynvost"
  - "chani"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "ezmerelda"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "ireena"
  - "jack-mayer-johnson-mathews"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "pickles"
  - "rahadin"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "urwen"
places:
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "krezk"
  - "sanctum-of-krasus"
  - "snorbuls-hole"
  - "the-chasm"
  - "underdark"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "gwen"
  - "talon"
  - "the-last-word"
  - "thundercannon"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
---

With a plan in mind, the group looks over their map to try and figure out the closest teleportation circle.  After spending a few minutes scouring the map, the group comes to the conclusion that there isn't one.  Mordenkainen offers to have Stick take them and the group agrees but spends a few minutes gathering supplies, looking at notes on Silver Dragons and organizing packs - knowing they are heading into the lion's den.  JmJm stands up from the corner he was sitting in, the now putrefying corpse of Stephen at his feet, and says that he wants in on the final battle...that he needs to avenge his friend.  Buumi also points out that he can't be climbing the pillarstone of Ravenloft with one arm and decides to stay with Mordenkainen while the group infiltrates.  The party splits into to teams; Mordenkainen, Stick, JmJm, Buumi, Ireena, Ezmerelda, Waldo (the guardsman from Krezk) and the non-combatants will teleport into the castle once the main party has gotten inside the castle; using the sending stone from Morden as a homing beacon for the spell.  Looking around the Sanctum of Argynvost for presumably the last time, the party exchanges worried glances.  The main infiltration group heads over to the wereravens in the teleport circle; Stick at it's center.  Mordenkainen wishes them luck and with a flash of white light Patches, Cirrus, Fey, Tark, Gundren, Gwen and the six wereravens find themselves in a misty field outside Barovia Village.  Stick wishes the group luck, especially to Patches; who shoots the magical artifact's flirting attempts down instantly.  With a sigh, Stick returns to Mordenkainen with a teleport spell, leaving the infiltration party alone in the cool misty night.

   With a terrifying intensity and despite the cold misty darkness of early morning, the constant flashing lightning lights the valley.  Castle Ravenloft is clearly visible above the misty expanse of the valley, sitting ominously atop the twelve-hundred foot column of rock.  As lightning rains from the sky, a vortex of dark energy swirls above the castle, a hurricane of undead and spirits whirling within the forming teleportation circle.  The group looks at the base of the Pillarstone and their sight becomes obscured by the low lying fog.  Uneasy and not wanting any undue trouble, the group sends the wereravens out ahead scouting.  After a few minutes of sitting in the flashing but utterly silent mists, Urwen and his wife - Danica, return to the group. The wereravens report that Barovia village is completely deserted, and completely destroyed.  The group heads into the destroyed town through the cloying mists.  Barovia village looms out of the fog as black, skeletal shapes.  Bright orange pinpricks of light glow through the fog even as it is lit by the silent and continuous flashes of lightning surrounding Castle Ravenloft.  Getting closer to the village though, the group can clearly see that the town is in ruins.  The buildings are all hollow, burned shells, the orange pinpricks being the smoldering ash and embers of the place.  Every building is a ruin and the muddy cobblestones are red with blood, the sharp metallic scent assaulting the senses.  Nothing is alive here, but nothing is dead either.  The village is devoid of anyone, even corpses and an eerie silence looms out of the mists, oppressive and insidious... The group walks through the town, on guard and on edge, but make it to the town center without being accosted.  Walking through a collapsed shell of a building, Gundren remembers that one of these ruins is...or was, a merchant store.  The dwarf looks around, and sees the glint of metal from a nearby house, and goes to investigate.  After moving aside some burned floor boards and a half burned teddybear, Gundren finds a charred lockbox and has Patches open it.  The lock proves to be of little challenge to the practiced rogue and they open the lockbox to find a small amount of coin, they stash it but not before getting incredulous looks from Urwen.  The end of Barovia is nigh, but stopping to loot a burned out house is still a high priority it seems... The group walks out of the village without incident, across deserted farms and fields.  The mist is still thick about them and makes vision through the Svalich woods difficult.  Stopping at the tree-line, the group once again sends the wereravens ahead to scout and the group waits in silence in a dark and muddy field.  Once again, the ravens report no enemies.  By this point, the group decides that there probably won't be any enemies - that they have all been called to the castle as it is mere hours from leaving - and double time it through the woods.  Though running through an ancient forest at night, the trees are spaced far enough a part and with little enough underbrush that the way is easily visible with the groups lowlight vision and the flashes of lightning up ahead.  After an hour at a brisk uphill pace, the trees end abruptly and the mist of the valley thins out.  

   The Pillarstone rises above the group, only a few hundred meters away up a rocky slope.  A cold drizzle has started, making everyone miserable and reminding the group once more how much they hate Barovia.  The only obstacle between the group and the cavern entry to Ravenloft is a blistering curtain of energy and a thousand foot cliff.  Looking up above her, Patches spies the dark shape of the cavern and points it out to the group - also noting the army of the dead circling the castle high above.  The group discusses a plan quickly and then move to execute it; Patches heading directly to the curtain of lightning, studying the pattern of the bolts.  Timing it perfectly, and after only a moments hesitation, Patches leaps through to the other side of the teleportation circle, neatly avoiding a blast of lightning.  She pulls up the cowl of her cloak and begins donning her climbing kit.  Starting her free-climb of the pillarstone is rough at first, slipping on the mossy and icy stones but she quickly get's a feel for it and starts ascending at a prodigious rate, leaving the rest of the group far below.

  Cirrus watches Patches progression and once she has a sufficient head start, he calls upon his powerful armor and transforms into a giant Raven.  Tark hugs the huge bird, feeling it's soft feathers and then leaps atop it's back, calling in shadow, allowing them to pass without trace.  Gundren looks at his 800lb mechanical lion and thinks they might have a problem getting her up the cliff face.  Fey points out that she doesnt need to breathe and that his Bag of Holding has just enough space remaining for her to fit.  They bag Gwen and then allow Cirrus to pick them up in his giant talons and he begins to rise - giant wings flapping furiously.  The wereravens begin circling the giant Raven in their bird forms, cawing excitedly.  The huge bird studies the energy curtain and then tucks it's wings in to dive, managing to get through the energy curtain with only a few singed feathers.  The following wereravens are not so lucky, with Urwen, Danica and Derik having some arcing lightning bast into them, almost knocking them from the air.  They recover quickly and get close enough to Cirrus to get the benefit of Tark's spell.  The giant raven, coated in obscuring magic, circles the pillarstone and rises quickly, staying as close to the rock as he dares.  Near the top, Cirrus spots the cavern opening they need - the exit point for the catacombs bat population each evening.  Just as he heads to it though, a massive batlike creature swoops down from the swirling mass of undead above.  The thing let's out a horrific shriek but doesn't notice the obscured shapeshifter fly into cavern beneath it.  Cirrus drops off his cargo in the guano covered cavern.  Fey and Gundren descend gracefully and quickly, the wereravens all taking up perches around the cavern in their bird forms.  Cirrus turns and looks down, out of the cavern, scouring the cliffside for Patches so he can go get her with Tark still on his back.  For many minutes the warlock sees nothing, but then, in one of the flashes of light, he sees some movement below.  Focusing on that spot, he finally sees the Drow, scaling the cliffside with ease.  Patches looks up and sees the giant Raven looking down at her and she sags in her harness grinning and exhausted, beckoning Cirrus to swoop down and collect her.  The massive bird leaps from the cavern in a dive toward her, his talons opening to grab at her.  Patches detaches her wall anchor and lets herself begin to fall from the cliff - to be scooped up swiftly and gently by Cirrus.   Returning to the cave, Cirrus drops off Patches and Tark and then alights on a rock, shifting back to his Tiefling form.  The group takes a moment to rest, but time is of the essence and they don't dawdle.  Patches takes point, the deepening caverns being intimately familiar to her.  Claustrophobic, dank and dirty, the bat-passage ascends steadily deeper into the Pillarstone eventually getting so dark that even with low light vision the group can only see about thirty feet (except Patches who has no problems).   The tunnel Patches is following ends suddenly in a small chamber, a chimney of stone ascending fifty feet above a still, black pool of fetid water.  The place immediately puts Patches on guard, knowing that a place like this in the underdark would be the home of a predator of some kind.  She lets the rest of the group catch up to her and then makes them aware of the issue, the ominous waters of the pool remaining mirror-like and still.

  The group waits in the tunnel, just before the pool, discussing what to do in quiet whispers.  Tark ends up shadowstepping to the tunnel high above and looking down the stone chimney to the group thirty feet below; where he sees Patches looking up at him incredulous, holding the rope he was supposed to be securing. He shadosteps back, grabs the rope and then realizes that he has no idea how to secure it.  With an exasperated sigh, Patches gets a climbing anchor from her kit and secures the rope to it, showing Tark how to wedge the anchor into a wall.  Tark then shadowsteps back to the top of the chimney and secures the rope as Patches skirts the dark pool to stand directly beneath the Monk.  Tark drops the rope, down to the waiting Patches, who catches it and secures the other end to make sure it does not disturb the water.  Patches climbs up quickly to the top of the chimney and the exit tunnel and waits, looking down to ensure no one needs any assistance.  Gundren heads around the pool to the rope, scraping his Thundercannon on the walls a little, swearing and pulling out a grease rag to polish the scuffs.  The Dwarf gets to the rope without any real issue and begins climbing, easily making his way to the top.  Fey heads to the rope next with Cirrus close behind, but just as the wizard begins climbing, his foot slips and is about to fall into the pool when Cirrus reaches out and brushes Fey's shoulder with his fingers.  Fey immediately stops falling, the levitation dweomer taking effect and arresting his fall.  With a little "hmm" of approval, Fey begins easily hand walking up the rope, completely weightless.  Cirrus begins climbing the rope as the last person in the group and gets about five feet off the ground before his feet slip and he too begins to fall directly for the still waters beneath.  Reacting with lightning speed, Patches shoots out a securing web from her bracer to catch Cirrus at the same moment Fey summons a blast of cold, freezing the pool solid.  The tension immediately bleeds from the group as whatever was in the pool is now frozen solid and with Patches assistance Cirrus is hauled to the top and into the tunnel.  Gwen easily leaps and climbs up the chimney, her mechanical mythril claws finding easy purchase, and the wereravens all fly up to the tunnel without issue.  The group continues on, an Unseen servant leading the way and with Patches just behind.

   The tunnel rises, corkscrewing higher and Patches realizes that they must be getting close to the castle's crypts.  The Unseen Servant on ahead notes some movement just as Patches calls a halt for the group and the party gathers in close to hear what she has seen - up ahead there is a chasm filled with spiderwebs and giant spiders.  The spiders do not appear to be of any poisonous varieties, but even so, there's a number of the dog sized critters.  Knowing the flammable nature of the webbing, Fey thinks that the best bet to avoid a fight would be to light the webbing and have the fire drive away the beasts.  Just in case, everyone get's ready, bows, pistols and spells to annihilate the spiders should they be flushed towards the group rather than away.  Fey snaps his fingers, releasing a firebolt into the webbing down the tunnel and the stuff quickly burns, fires spreading throughout the chasm and driving the giant spiders out of the chamber - and directly into the tunnel the group is waiting in.    Spells, arrows and bullets fill the tunnel with death and any spider that gets close to the group is cut down by Urwen and his wife Danica.  Patches meanwhile has backed up from the onslaught of spiders, shuddering in revulsion and wanting to have nothing to do with the hairy, eight legged things.  After a few moments, the giant spiders are all dead and the webbing in the chasm has been burned away.  Patches tiptoes around the splattered Ichor, even as Gundren rips a leg from one of the dead creatures and begins sucking out the flesh, garnering a revolted gagging from the Drow.  Patches makes it back to the chasm the spiders called their home and looks up and around, seeing nothing horizontally, but noting a small hole fifty feet above her, a hole in a man-made wall of stone - the catacombs of Castle Ravenloft.  Patches climbs to the hole and secures a rope for the group to follow and the party squeezes through the hole one at a time and into the guano coated catacombs of the castle, huge pillars of stone housing crypts laid out in a grid before them.

  Patches takes point and checks the area, ensuring no surprises - even checking Strahd's crypt for his ex-wives, but discovers nothing and the group heads out cautiously but quickly, the Wereravens back in bird form and  flanking the group.  They make it to the catacomb exit, the ancient stone door still open from their last visit and head down the long tunnel, noting and avoiding the trapped section of floor still marked by Patches from last time.  Patches makes it to the chamber housing the teleportation Brazier and gemstones just in time to see the flicker of purple torchlight ascending a set of stairs away from the group and she turns, beckoning the group to make haste toward her.  Arriving at the Brazier, Fey wastes no time in grabbing the only gemstone to still be on the device - the one they used last time to take them to Strahd's study - and casts it into the flame, the group all touching Fey and with the wereravens all perched on shoulders, everyone is transported in a flash of crimson light and the group finds themselves once more in Strahd's study...

   The place is deserted and the fire in the hearth is burning low.  The area is quickly scoured for traps and when none are detected, Fey contacts Mordenkainen.  The group finds out that they have maybe thirty minutes before the castle leaves and quickly end communication through the sending stone with Mordy.  Fey casts the Sending stone into the center of the room, activating it's properties.  A sharp crack echoes through the room and the beautiful oak table in the center of the chamber is crushed to splinters by the force of the spell.  Everyone from Argynvosts sanctum is standing where the table once was and the chamber is suddenly crowded with bodies.  Mordenkainen instantly begins working on a Leomunds Tiny hut for the non-combatants and once finished, the children, mayor of Krezk and woman from the same village all climb inside.  Waldo, the Krezk guard, looks around nervously but resolutely, weapons in hand and informs the group that he will be fighting with them.  The group tries to discourage the man, but Waldo is resolute and would much rather die on his feet than huddled in a corner.  Chekhov goes up to Patches, asking to fight as well, but is rebuffed and is told to stay with the other children and help protect them.  He seems to latch on to this idea and he and the Goblin; Mr. Pickles, all head into the spell wrought chamber with Kitty and Aurora following, waiting just outside.  The group takes stock of their forces: JmJm, Buumi, Cirrus, Fey'Anon, Slippy, Tark, Gundren, Gwen, Ireena, Ezmerelda, Mordenkainen, Stick, Waldo, Urwen, Danica, Herti, Gibra, Derik and Kurt...a small army, and with Buumi now wielding the Ashrbinger thus allowing Tark to use his beloved staff again.  Ireena takes a moment to look around the chamber, remembering it from a time, and life long ago.  She looks up to her portrait hanging above the fireplace and recalls sitting for the painter during her life as Tatyana.  Her expression turns stony as she remembers that it was Rahadin that stole that life from her and caused all of this and she draws her saber, jaw clenched in anger.   

  Fey reaches into his ring, drawing upon the powers of the entity trapped there to use it's far-sight to scry within the castle now that he is within its wards.  He wrestles with the entity for a moment, forcing it to do his will.  Fey succeeds, but feels a cloying, greasy energy on him from his contact with the entity and wonders how much more he can interact with it before it changes him... Fey uses the power wrested from his ring and looks through the castle for their targets.  He finds both Strahd and Rahadin on the main floor of the castle.  Strahd stands facing the altar of the long desecrated chapel.  Broken pews are scattered around, rotted and disintegrating from a millennium of neglect.  Floating above a white marble slab shot through with veins of silver,  floats the Fragment of the Last Word, a golden rectangle of metal now glowing white hot.  Energy pulses out in waves from the artifact, and with every pulse, it washes over Strahd causing his form to waver and ripple and his hair and clothes to be blown back as if by a strong wind.  The very air is distorted and the light cascading from the artifact hurts Fey's eyes even through the scrying spell.  Fey sees the flesh burn away from Strahd, down to bone as each wave cascades over him, but in between pulses, his flesh regenerates and reforms anew, his Vampire nature and power keeping him "alive"...Fey moves the spell away from Strahd and through the chapel doors, down the hall and out another set of sealed doors into the main hall of the castle.  Rahadin waits at a set of grand copper doors, covered with intricate bas reliefs of Dragons and knights.  Light is glowing from under the closed door behind him, from the spell being cast by Strahd in the chapel.  Torchlight glitters off of the intricate filigree of his armor and refracts off the gemstone pommel of his scimitar and a long cloak, made of strips of black silk rustles quietly, blown by a small draft.  The Dusk elf stands there, eyes closed, seemingly oblivious and utterly still.  Around the grand entry hall to the castle, no guards are waiting.  Once again Fey sees two large and beautiful statues of dragons, flanking the closed copper gates that lead out to the castle walls.

   Fey breaks the spell and relays what he saw to the group.  After a short discussion, they decide to assault Rahadin as Strahd would be unable to leave his spellcasting to assist.  The group is distracted from their discussion by a rising cackle of glee from JmJm who has wandered over to one of the huge bookshelves lining the room.  Raising his ornate brooch above his head, JmJm enacts it's magic and the bookcase shudders to life, animating as eleven books soar from it's shelves, flapping around the animated bookshelf as the other fall from it.  The group stares in disbelief as the Bard leaps atop the "back" of the bookcase and tries to head out into the hall, to head down to fight Rahadin.  The bookcase being the size that it is however, cannot easily fit through the door, forcing JmJm to dismount and help his creation through the small doorway.  Once on the other side, he re-mounts the thing and it begins heading down the hall to the stairs, the rest of the party in close pursuit.  The group finds themselves in the same hall which Peytr had driven them from the castle with his champions.  Wary, the group looks at the statues lining the hall and notes two empty plinths where the stone golems were last time, but nothing steps down to meet them.  The group does note however that the face of each statue contorts in anguish with every flash of light from the spell outside and the group hurries down the hall and to the stairs down. 

  One floor below, the group hits a snag, the doors here being far too small for the animate bookcase to contort it's way through.  The group comes to a standstill while they discuss it but Mordenkainen has no patience, casting Reduce on the bookcase to allow it through the door, the group following.  Consulting the map, the group heads to a set of ornate doors covered in depictions of dragons and nights, somewhat surprised by the lack of resistance so far.  Patches unlocks the doors and opens them slowly, revealing the throne room of Strahd filled with silent un-moving forms.  The group freezes as they see the room filled with people that they quickly determine to be Hollow (soulless) peasants.  After a few moments, it becomes clear that the Hollows are not being controlled and won't react to the group without a will to guide them.  The group makes their way through the press of bodies, carefully pushing past to get to the stairs down to the main hall, with Urwen and the other wereravens looking at the crowd with sadness, recognizing many faces.  The group knows that this mob will attack them the moment they engage Rahadin and set up tripwires at the top of the stairs and then grease the steps, ensuring a nasty fall for anyone following.  Fey tries to exert his will on some of the hollows, but as he does the will of Rahadin senses something and focuses on the disturbance, forcing Fey to retreat from their minds lest they be discovered.   Now on the landing below the throne room but above the ornate main hall, the party all look at one another, resolute and ready, turning to the large staircase descending down to the villain Rahadin.

   The group charges, the animated bookcase leading (it's magic almost expired) as the group uses it as a visual and physical barrier.  The clatter of the charge is clearly audible and as the group makes it to the ground floor, the bookcase veering toward the Dusk Elf - they see a streak of darkness return to Rahadin from across the vast entry hall, his shadow returning to him.  Rahadin looks at the charging group, a sly smile on his face transforming to that of surprise as he takes in just how many enemies are assaulting him.  Over by the gleaming copper main doors of the castle, one of the beautiful dragon statues shifts and moves, a thin layer of stone flaking off of it in sheets as a young Red Dragon steps down from the plinth.  A second dragon statue flanking the other side of the main castle doors remains motionless but clearly ready to come to life at a moments notice...
