---
title: "Barovia - Session 10"
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: "Barovia"
session: 10
---

The group sits around their table in the bluewater inn, looking at Urwen in shock.  Tark speaks up first asking if the wife is a "bird person" and makes flapping motions with his arms.  Urwen urges the group to keep it down, looking around the deserted Inn cautiously. Then Cirrus speaks up, asking about the kids too and mimicking the flapping arm motion, to which Urwen sighs and nods as well.  Eventually, after much mimicking of one another, the group determines that Urwens entire bloodline are Were-Ravens.  Urwen off handidly remarks that the undead cat that Tark brough back stopped moving earlier in the day and he buried it out back.   Just then, a commotion erupts from the stables, with the screeches of children and a lions roar, Chekhov and the other two Urwen boys come tearing into the common room, with Aurora fast on their heels, a 600lb tiger charging after them scattering tables and chairs.   The kids laugh in glee and Aurora pounces around a bit, her white and grey stripes and spots catching the firelight before rolling onto her back, presenting a belly for some rubs.  Urwen, initially outraged and calling for the kids to "take it outside!" shakes his head and chuckles, lamenting that laughter is not a common thing in Barovia and heads to the bar to fetch the group some more Ale.  Mr. Pickles, the Goblin servant, steps into the doorway, his heavy robe obscuring his inhuman features, and shakes his head in disgust before plodding over to Patches.  Mr. Pickles laments the weakness of human children, that Chekhov is not taking well to his stabbing lessons.   Chekhov approaches the group at this point, saying that he hates Mr. Pickles lessons, and that Mr. Pickles is weird and asks if maybe he could just stay in Vallaki.  The group scoffs at this, saying that the life of a Squire is on the road, with his master and that the only way to survive this place is though training and endurance.  Chekhov asks several of the group about their backgrounds but gets little.  Chekhov agrees to continue training., albeit reluctantly, and Patches sends him off with Mr. Pickles.  After the events of the last two weeks; The attack on Baldurs gate and this horrid Demi-plane, the group decides to take an inventory and divide up their potions and scrolls. With the chores out of the way, the group ends up drinking heavily, with Buumi passing out and being carried to his bed by Tark, Patches smoking by herself in a corner the common room.

The next day, the group heads down to the common room for a morning meal to decide how to spend the day.  The group agrees that they need to check the town for the fallout of ousting the Burgomaster, Buumi must keep his promise to talk with the priest about the missing bones of St. Andral, while Fey stays behind to inscribe some new spells.  Gundren and Tark head to Blinsky's toy shop, Tark to check on the clockwork JmJm figure he ordered and Gundren to fix Gwen as she was damaged in the battle with the Hags.  They arrive at the store and head inside, Tark wondering at the half finished JmJm figure while an excited Blinsky and always fiery Gundren get to work fixing - and improving - Gwen.  Eventually, Tark gets bored and heads out to meet up with Patches and Cirrus, but not before getting a cheese and gravy pastry or three and messily eating them on the way.

Patches and Cirrus head to the square to await Ireena, Mr. Pickles having been sent to fetch her.  Once in the square, they loiter for twenty minutes, talking about the state of the town after noticing the impaled head of Lydia Vallaki the now ex-baroness of the town.  They grab some snacks from a nearby pastry store and they both agree that saving her from the Manor was more than enough effort and that her death later was her own fault for not being smart or tough enough to escape it.  They look up at the head once more as ravens begin to peck at it's eyes...Mr. Pickles flops his way up and addresses Patches, informing her that Ireena is taking a luncheon with Lady Wachter in the Wachterhaus manor.  Not liking the sound of that one bit and fearing for the safety of Ireena, the two of them head to the Wachterhaus immediately.

Back at the inn, Fey Is just about finishing his inscribing.  He takes and inventory of his supplies and sighs, realizing that the group as a whole is running rather low on funds and materials.  Fey mulls over getting a job before dismissing it with a chuckle.  Just then, Rudoph Van Richten, in the guise of Rictavio enters the inn.  Recalling Ezmerelda, Fey decides to head over and talk with him about his erstwhile apprentice.  Despite the charm attempt two nights previous, and some initial coldness, the mention of Ezmerelda gets Rudolph talking to Fey quickly.  He laments her presence in Barovia and considers ignoring her until Fey points out that she will follow him regardless which may end up being more dangerous than simply letting her accompany him.  He mulls it over and agrees, heading back to his tower when Fey mentions that's where Ez said she would head.  Rudolph must have just missed her when he was leaving that place himself.  He heads out of the city to the west. 

Over by the Wachterhaus, Patches and Cirrus are looking upon the decrepit and moldering manor.  The silence is broken by Tark, noisily munching into a Pastry and the other two turn to regard him, not having noticed his approach.  They note the melted cheese and gravy in his beard and he wipes a gravy greased hand through it to clean his hand...Tark asks what's up and Cirrus and Patches tell him about Ireena.  Patches uses her bracers to zip up to the second level and begins to use her thieves tools to cut some glass out of the window to unlock it.  The house being what it is, the entire window pane falls in at the slightest touch, shattering on the ground at the end of a long hallway.  Patches flinches and cringes at the sound but no one comes to investigate. Not one to every think too much, Tark walks up to the front door and knocks on it. Tark calls up to Patches, asking how things are going to which patches responds by dropping a clay tile on his head.  Tark catches it and shadowsteps up to her, handing the "dropped" tile back to her. Cirrus, back at the front door hears the approach of footsteps on the other side and calls Tark back down to him just as the door opens and a small, fat, ruddy-faced, stringy haired man opens the door.  He looks at the two of them, Cirrus in his white priestly garb and the messy, food covered and bearded halfling in bewilderment.  Cirrus explains they are here to see lady Wachter, but the butler refuses them entry until Ireena and the luncheon is mentioned after which they are invited in.  Patches upstairs begins to investigate rooms for valuables, coming across the corpse of Sir Wachter lying in a four poster bed, surrounded by portraits of the family. Being distracted by the corpse (in the bed no less) she finds nothing of value in the rest of the room and heads to another - the library.  Once again though, she finds nothing of value but does find eight very grumpy and smelly cats.  Thinking the outside a better place for them, Patches opens the window and frees them from the room.

Downstairs, Tark and Cirrus are led into the dining room, where they sit at a large wooden dining table with Lady Wachter at one head and Ireena at the other.  They are eating Pheasant and Lady Wachter is not happy at their appearance.  Cirrus and Tark take seats without being asked and begin to put the pressure on Lady Wachter, undermining her in front of Ireena whilst reinforcing Ireena as Burgomaster candidate.  Tark digs into a meal, while Cirrus and Lady Wachter lock intense stares.  The tension is broken by a long and loud fart that Cirrus prestidigitates to come from Lady Wachter, who immediately straightens her already board stiff pose and goes red with anger.  Ireena grins and snorts with supressed laughter.  Lady Wachter dispels the fart noises with a wave of her hand and staring at Cirrus magically demands that he leave her home immediately. Ireena takes this moment to decline the previous invitation to dinner from Lady Wachter and begins to collect herself to leave. Feeling the magical suggestion from Lady Wachter, but brushing it off, Cirrus gathers Tark and leaves, with Patches on his heels.  Outside the Manor, he mentions to them the magical nature of Lady Wachter and they head back to the Inn, with Ireena heading back to her room to further consider her options.

Back at the Inn, the group gathers in the late afternoon to discuss what they had each found out around town.   Buumi returns, telling the group that the Bones of St. Andral, that hallowed the temple grounds are believed stolen, that a young lad named Milijov is prime suspect.  The group dismisses the case of the stolen bones, sending Chekhov and Pickles out to investigate it as Chekhov's first real quest.  Chekhov panics, and at first refuses, but is given a supreme healing potion to bolster his courage.  He draws his dinky dagger, and with the potion in the other hand, he and Mr. Pickles hit the town. After much deliberation and a meal, the rest of the group decides to focus on Lady Wachter, fearing for Ireena they decide to force the issue and confront the Lady.  

While the group is packing their things, finishing drinks and cleaning their plates of food, Fey takes off at a quick pace, making good time to the Wachterhaus, the group in pursuit but a minute or so behind.  Fey gets to the manor and examines the outside, circling it.  He discovers the cellar doors and notes a well worn path through the weeds to the doors.  He cautiously and slowly opens them and descends the well worn and damp stone steps, cautiously checking for traps and pressure plates as he goes, finding nothing.  Getting to the bottom, he surveys the room, seeing four cots in an earthen floored cellar, the stairs up to the house across from him.  He can clearly see some patches of loose dirt and the many footprints of people walking up to a not so 'secret' door.  Fey strides across to it, but just as he does, the ground erupts and eight skeletons claw their way out of the dirt and assault him.  Always on his guard and never surprised, the ever paranoid Fey was ready.  Darting back up the stairs, narrowly avoiding the flails of a nearby skeleton, Fey waits for the unthinking creatures to group at the base of the stairs up to him and then unleashes a Cone of Cold from his orbiting Ioun stone.  The blast of arctic wind blows open the cellar doors with a puff of frost and snow, just as the group arrives.  They look down the stairs to see Fey, relaxed, admiring his handiwork.  The entire basement is coated in frost and ice, with icicles standing out perpendicular from the floor from the blast of wind.  What remains of the skeletons are crumbling, one entirely shattering as it falls to the floor.  The rest crumble as the group descends.  A little more wary now, Buumi goes first to the secret door.  Ready to heave with all his magically enhanced might, Buumi pulls...and the door easily opens. Inside is a large black Pentagram painted on the floor with a seat at each point.  Several candles are lit, but the place is seemingly deserted.  

Analyzing the sigil, both Buumi and Patches recognize it as a summoning circle for Devils.  Magical ability and Devil Worship?  Lady Wachter is definitely not what she seems.  Deciding to head up into the house, the group moves back into the frozen room and are about to head into the house when they hear Lady Wachter outside, saying she is heading to the Feast of St. Andral.  Not wanting to let her escape, the group rushes up the cellar stairs to the outside, but she is nowhere to be seen. Thinking they have just missed her, the group rushes to the street and begins to head in the direction of the feast, but still do not see Lady Wachter, then suddenly, screams begin erupting across the town, from the Feast!

The group rushes through the streets, as they get close, Patches scales a nearby building and begins bounding across the tightly packed rooftops.  Night has truly set at this point, and although it is not raining, a light ground fog has begun to rise.  As the group nears, civilians are streaming past them, yelling in terror.  Tark grabs one of them, asking what's happening, the terrified individual cries that Gowain is attacking the Church and Feast.  Rounding a corner, the group surveys the scene before them.  The civilians are dead or fleeing from three figures at the center of the feast.  Gowain is holding Lucian, the priest by his throat a good two feet from the ground.  With an audible crack and crunching of delicate vertebrae, Lucian stops struggling and Gowain throws the corpse aside, turning to look at the group.   Sauntering out of the fog, the group approaches, each and every one of them, Gwen included, with an illusionary hat atop their heads, mocking Gowain for the loss of his own.  Gowains cocky grin falters, turning into an enraged snarl, screaming at the group that he will slaughter them all!  Next to him a female Half Orc Vampire in Hide armor hefts a mighty greatsword from the corpses of several villager.  Behind Gowain, a pale Elf male in half plate, wielding two longswords steps up, blood splattering his ornate armor.  Another Vampire; Growland. 

Patches, her Drow Heritage putting her past even the honed senses of Vampires, sneaks across a nearby rooftop, pausing when she spots another Vampire lying in wait, an Eladrin woman, longbow in hand.  The group advances down below and Patches decides to defeat the ambush before it's sprung, hopping over the peak of the slate roof, throwing a poisoned dart into the waiting Eladrin.  With a yelp, the archer spins away, taking a nasty strike from the thrown weapon but shrugging off the poison with it's undead fortitude.  Her red glowing eyes narrow as they focus on the crouched Drow in front.  Patches Piwafwi cowl is pulled low obscuring her Drow features and the Vampire Eladrin, Lelrin, remarks that she has heard of Patches and smirks at her shooting at Patches with two devastating longbow shots.  Patches nimbly dodges the first and summoning the misty ethereal blade of Stabby to her hand, blocks the second arrow clear from the air. The grin wiped from the Vampire's face, the archer backs away, dropping from the roof to the street below to put some distance between herself and Patches.  The Vampire drops down to the only two survivors of  the massacre, a man and his daughter huddling against the wall of a building.  The archer proceeds to try to use the two civilians as cover.

Meanwhile, the rest of the group engages Gowain and his lackeys.  The huge Half-Orc Vampire Barbarian; Beerna downs a potion of growth and rushes towards Buumi, swelling in size with every stride.  Buumi and the now giant Vampire, trade blows, Buumi's glowing hammer being deflected in a shower of sparks by the gargantuan Greatsword, but his shield remaining steadfast against her thunderous strikes.  Gundren swivels his Thundercannon to bear on Beerna, blasting shot after shot at her, imbuing many with lightning.  The giant vampire takes the stinging hits, several rending her flesh. Gwen leaps at Beerna, claws flashing but is held at bay by her enormous blade.  Both Fey and Cirrus reach out with spells in an attempt to debilitate Gowain and his minions, Cirrus quickly taking cover behind a wall as he sends out his spells.  They succeed in stunning the armored Elf Vampire and knocking both Shadow Monk bodyguards out of invisiblity, but Gowain is unaffected, slapping them out of their stupor quickly. Seeing civilians in need, but thinking quickly about the greater battle, Tark reaches down to his elemental ring, calling to the plane of fire, summoning a great wall of fire to encircle Gowain.  With a cry of pain, the Elf leaps back out of the ring of fire.   Fey commands his familiar to lay down an area of tangling thorns, blocking the area between the wall of fire and the group.

Thinking furiously, about the battle at hand, the group is blindsided when an invisible mage blasts them with a Cone of Cold, the unseen mage cackling with glee.  The Jade frog familiar of Feys drops frozen to the ground, out of the fight.  The group tries desperately to figure out where the blast came from but can only narrow down a general location.  Gowain and his two bodyguards shadowstep high into the air to get out from the deadly ring of fire.  Seeing his chance, Fey summons a great fireball, but just as he releases it, his spell is fouled as the disruption of a Counterspell unravels his gathering magic.  That same annoying cackle of laughter comes from an unseen source.  Growling under his breath (it coming out as a watery bubble because of his mask) and not to be countered by some upstart mage, Fey regathers the energy and unleashes a brilliant line of combustion, streaking into the air to immolate Gowain and his two servitors.  The two shadow monks are immolated, being burned badly.  Gowain falls from the explosion relatively unharmed, having cowered within his spell-wrought leather duster.  Gowain then teleports to Buumi, just as Beerna scoops hum up in her massive arms and bites into his shoulder and neck with her enormous fangs, drawing upon his life force and crushing him in a tremendous hug.  Tark shadowsteps to the nearby building wall, above the cowering civilians and the Vampire Ranger, running along the wall.  Looking up at the running halfling, the Ranger lets fly two arrows, but both are deftly caught from the air.  Leaping from the building side, Tark launches both arrows back at the Vampire, forcing her to doge and roll aside. 

Seeing an opportunity, and knowing his friends resilience but caring nothing for the civilians, Cirrus summons a massive sickening radiance, an unearthly green light suffuses the entire street, disintegrating one of the falling Shadow Monks.  The Vampires wail in agony and the Civilians scream in terror and pain and Gowain screams in anguish.  Tark and Buumi gasp in pain as the light scorches their flesh. 

Buumi's mind cascades back to the deaths of the Barovian patrol, and he now knows Cirrus was indeed responsible for that debacle... Tark lands behind the Eladrin Vampire Ranger, throwing kicks and punches in a masterful dance.  The Ranger however is no novice to combat and only takes glancing blows.  Gowain and one of his lackeys Shadowstep to Tark, surrounding him...Cirrus attempts another spell, but is countered by the cackling mage, now visible in the sickening Radiance - a small Vampire Gnome; Balthazar.

Patches rushes to the edge of the roof, throwing another dart at Gowain, and then lobbing a grenade at the feet of the giant Vampire Barbarian.  It explodes in a shower of sparks and arcing lighting, pulsing into Buumi and his captor.  Both Buumi and Beerna are stunned and Gundren commands Gwen to pull Buumi to safety.  The mechanical lion pulls Buumi from the grasp of the jolting Vampire, backing up and throwing him to safety.  Gwen then adjusts her stance, unleashing a massive blast of lightening from her roaring clockwork jaws into Beerna as Gundren unloads shot after shot.  The vampire is disintegrated, leaving nothing but a mist to blow away in the evening breeze.  Across the way, Gowain holds his hand up high, shattering a small charm, unleashing a dispelling burst of anit-magic and the sickening radiance disappears.  He then proceeds, with the ranger and Shadow monk to lay into Tark.  The halfling dodges, blocks and weaves, but the number of blows from such skilled opponents gets through his masterful defenses and hit after hit slams into him, pummeling him into unconsciousness.  Cackling in insane ecstacy, Gowain reaches for his hat, to pluck it from Tark's unconscious head...

Across the way, Growland, the Vampire Battlemaster runs, jumps and shadowsteps to get close to attempt to flank the group.  Hurt from the fire wall and sickening radiance, he is unprepared as he re-appears for the barrage of spells and shots that erupt into his face and is destroyed unceremoniously and quickly.  Buumi, tosses his hammer into the air, glowing it rockets around the cover that Balthazar the vampire mage is using and it smacks into him with sickening crunches and cries of pain.  Seeing his opportunity, Cirrus commands his owl to fly up along the rooftops near where Gowain has downed Tark.  As it flies, Cirrus concentrates and casts a powerful spell through it's small feathered form, causing it to swell to gargantuan sizes, transforming into a massive Tyrannosaurus Rex.  The Owl-T-Rex crashes down onto the roof of the structure, pummeling through to the ground floor in a torrent of debris.  It then proceeds to smash through the wall of the building just to the left of the Eladrin Vampire Ranger.  She looks over, her red eyes going wide as she sees the massive lizard's maw descend on her, crushing and snapping her in half.  The vampire's dying body dissolves to mist.  Having seen this spell before, to dangerous effect, Gowain shadowsteps to Cirrus, laying into him with devastating blows of his Ice-like chain weapon - his enchanted Kusagari to disrupt his concentration.  As Cirrus takes the hits, the spell fails and the owl reverts back to it's true form, and flies away to safety.  

Everyone at this point is horribly injured, Buumi calls upon Helm to seal his wounds while Fey and Cirrus pop the corks off of some powerful healing potions and down them.  Cirrus moves up to heal Tark, restoring him to consciousness enough that Tark manages to quaff a supreme healing potion and regain his feet, shadowstepping back to the group.

At this moment, the group notices the church to Lathander beginning to go up in flames, and another Vampire bursts from the front doors, a Dwarven Cleric - Kenga.  The vampire-dwarf surveys the scene, dispelling the burning fire wall with a wave of his hand and a prayer to his dark god - Atropos.  The Dwarf yelps with surprise at the scene of carnage and chaos in front of him and hastily pulls forth his unholy symbol and begins to chant to his dark god.  Gowain retreats to Kenga to receive healing while the Shadow monk teleports forwards to assault Fey.  Buumi moves in to protect the spellcasters.  Patches, seeing the injured small form of Balthazar behind a box preparing another spell dashes over, attacking expertly with Stabby.   She impales the small vampire on her ethereal blade and calls upon it's soul siphoning properties, destroying the Vampire as it wails.  Unlike the others, no mist rises from it's corpse, it's soul and very essence consumed by the dark blade wielded by the Drow.

Gundren, looking across and seeing a perversion of one of his kin swears loudly and hops up on a crate to get a clear shot at it.  Suddenly, the two cowering civilians rush forwards, throwing off their cloaks, revealing them to be Vistani assassins and attack Gundren with deadly poisoned blades.  As they rush by, Patches notes that she recognizes both assailants, Ilya, the Vistani guard from Madame Eva's camp and Arrigal, the mounted Vistani that accosted them at Argynvolsthold...  Only Gundren's dwarven heritage saves his life as his tough anatomy defeats the poison, but he stumbles away with deep stab wounds, falling behind the cover of a building he passes out, bleeding.  As he looses consciousness, Gundren commands Gwen to leap forwards to attack the Cleric, the healer, keeping the enemies up and fighting.  Seeing their support threatened, Gowain commands the remaining Shadowmonk to retreat to Kenga to defend him and receive healing.

Patches rushes up to attack the newcomers and faces off with Ilya as the woman swears at her, cursing Patches for stealing her stuff.  Patches cocks her head incredulously and claims that she has mistaken her for someone else, before stabbing forth violently with her cursed blade.  Ilya lets out a horrific scream, dark smoke gushing out of every orifice and pore and her very soul is torn from her body into Stabby, killing her instantly.  Patches face is wracked with agony as she does this, dark sinister veins crawling up her arm as the cursed dagger feeds on her and the soul of Ilya.  Arrigal cries out in horror, seeing his companion fall, but Fey launches a terrible spell his way, turning the horror into abject terror as he sees a manifestation of his darkest fear coming towards him.  Arrigal stumbles back, running from Patches and the mind-mage, taking cover in a nearby alley.  Gowain, with a shout and call to the heavens slams his fist into the ground and three of the civilian corpses lurch into un-life, rising to their feet as zombies to surround Patches.  Gowain then shadowsteps to a nearby alley to take cover and collect himself. 

The group is hurt badly, with Gundren down and the others nearing the limit of their powers.  The enemies fare no better, all being just as injured as the party.  The group stands to collect itself and renew the assault against the undead monsters that have attacked the Feast of St. Andral and killed so many innocents...
