---
title: "Neverwinter - Session 7"
chapter: 2
chapterTitle: "Neverwinter"
session: 7
---

The group just met with Bastillion and received their reward for finding the missing sailors.  Milling around in the Moonstone mask, Buumi, Patches, Tark and Fey'Anon grab a few drinks and think about what to do next.  Eventually heading upstairs and into the Tavern of Doors to check on the others.  Doc.B, JmJm and Gundren are inside.  Doc B and JmJm are prepping for the bards stage in an hour.  Gundren and his brothers seemed to be making something, Gundren eventually leaves the smithy to join the others in helping JmJm prepare for his show that evening.  The entire group assists in the preparations, creating props, fireworks, and an intricate planned performance.  Eventually, the group heads to the stage, several of them veering off to make small purchases and hand in quests. Buumi heading to the fish monger, Patches buying more poisons and Fey'Anon picking up a few scrolls.

   The few errands out of the way, the group is at the bards stage.  Approaching, they see Lorde and Gronk on stage putting on a tremendous performance.  Several are moved by the beauty of the music and Lorde finishes her set in a flourish.  Gronk then performs an amazing Glockenspeil solo, moving many to tears with it's beauty.  Buumi chats with the organizers and sets up JmJm to take the stage.  The group works in perfect harmony, putting a show on the likes of which few have ever seen and fewer will ever see again.

The magical lights of the stage dim and a gout of flame announces the arrival of JmJm, winking into view center stage.  He then mounts a spectral steed as he's engulfed in faerie fire and petals rain down upon the crowd.  The backdrop of standing stones are impressive as JmJm performs, fireworks, smoking bottles and lightning bolts erupting around.  JmJm then charms Lorde into coming on stage to assist his performance and they then gallop off the stage. 

The group finds JmJm engaged in a passionate kiss with Lorde right as she breaks out of the charm, going to push JmJm from the mount but dislodging herself instead.  Gronk shows up and picks her up and they flee into the night after JmJm refuses a Bard-off, claiming he will see her in Baldurs Gate!

The group then splits, with half returning to the Moonstone mask Inn to sleep for the tournament the next day and the rest going out to party and enjoy their success.  Patches and Fey head to the wizards tent to engage in some magical mind altering enchantments while JmJm finds penelope harpell and has an orgy with her, her husband and a friend her husband also picked up. 

The group awakes the next day with half in the box, helping Tark Prep for combat and Patches, Fey and JmJm recovering from the previous nights antics. The group arrives at the tournament around 10 am, Patches and Tark prepare for their bouts.  Tark vs Endomycles and Patches vs Hendrell, the champion of the moonwood.

Hendrell seems to be over the fact he'll be fighting a Drow as it was apparent in the previous bouts.  The Arena this time around has obstacles and cover scattered around.  The first rounds beings and Tark rushes Endomycles, immediately knocking him from the ring and winning instantly.  Patches uses the cover to her advantage, flaking Hendrell and striking him with her poisoned blades.  Paralyzed by the poison, Hendrell is easily knocked from the arena making Patches the surprising winner. Tark goes to Endomycles to help him up and offer him condolences, thoroughly embarrassed by his quick defeat, Tark quickly diffuses the situation and he and Endomycles end on good terms as the Dwarf moves off into the crowd looking to drink away his defeat.  Hendrell has to be attended to the priests and stomps off in a huff about the "dirty fighting of the honorless Drow.."

The next bout is Patches vs Tark.  Patches immediately breaks line of sight to stealth and Tark loses sight of her.  Tark quickly puts his back to a wall and enacts the magic of his eye patch to spy her magical weapons.  Spotting her, Tark rushes Patches and quickly knocks her from the ring before she can react.  Tark wins the bout, advancing to the finals against Moot.   As Moot takes the stage to begin the face off, Fey'Anon perks up, thinking he hears familiar sounds and words.  Looking around, Fey catches sight of a spellcaster in the final throws of a fireball…the explosion erupts, damaging many of the group and killing a few bystanders and many enemies throw off disguises, attacking the festival.  Thirty enemies rush the group, the tournament grounds and surrounding area while being supported by a powerful mage.  Nearby the group can see many others in being attacked in the festival, it has degenerated into a full blown battleground.

The group slays cultist after cultist.  Doc. B summons a lightning storm that fries many.  Moot slays them by the dozen but more keep coming.  The brawl is in full, with Buumi cutting down cultists and taking wicked hits, Patches assassinating stragglers, Tark striking out alongside Moot, Gundren blasting away, Fey and JmJm charming and mesmerizing.  As the cultist horde thins, the enemy Mage attacks the group in full force, pelting them with fire and ice.  Not realizing many of the group were protected, the mage assaulted Tark with fire, only to find out his spells were almost totally ineffective.  Tark pummels the mage and Patches sneak attacks him, dealing tremendous damage and paralyzing him.  Eventually, Tark drinks another strength potion and opening his bag of holding, manages to catch the Mage within.  The group mops up the cultists, but instead of throwing the bag into the lake or ocean, Tark opens it, catching a Cone of Cold to the face and the mage teleporting out renews his attack.  With most of the group bleeding and badly injured, Tark makes a final dash, wielding the staff of Moot and manages to crush the life from the Mage.

Looking around, the group sees a similar story playing out across the festival grounds, the cultists being destroyed and the festival goers winning out….but who were these attackers, what was their motive and why attack a festival that was so filled with deadly opponents…?
