---
title: Barovia - Session 23
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 23
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "baba-lysaga"
  - "bahamut"
  - "chani"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "ezmerelda"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "intent"
  - "ireena"
  - "jack-mayer-johnson-mathews"
  - "lathander"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "sergei"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "urwen"
  - "wachter"
places:
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "oerth"
  - "vallaki"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "gwen"
  - "hew"
  - "the-last-word"
  - "thundercannon"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
  - "vistani"
---

Rahadin immediately dukes to his left, beginning a run perpendicular to the group as the heroes and their allies charge down the steps in the grand hall of Ravenloft castle.   The massive structure begins to vibrate and dust falls as it's felt through the soles of everyone's feet.  The massive teleport spell nears it's execution, the entire castle is about to leave Barovia, torn free from the demiplane by the power of The Last Word.  Mordenkainen surveys the situation and slams Stick down onto a step as he descends with the party, azure light cascading from the diamond cap atop the archmages' staff.  The light focuses on Tark and the monk finds his vision begin to flicker, showing echoes of the near future, granting him foresight.  Seeing the future, Tark looks to Patches and sees the drow crouched behind a piece of furniture, hiding from the Red Dragon as it steps from it's plinth.  The echoes of the future show Patches turning to beckon Tark over, calling to bring Ireena and the journals of Strahd and Sergei.  As Patches begins to call out in the present, Tark is already moving, pulling Ireena along and grabbing the books from Fey's pack as he passes.  Tark arrives at Patches just as she finishes her call to him and she cuts herself off, looking at Tark with surprise as he presents the books to the rogue.  Patches tells Tark and those nearby, that Ireena should hop into Tark's bag of holding while she quaffs an invisibility potion and heads to Strahd, using Ireena and the evidence to turn him against Rahadin.  The group quickly agrees and Tark hands the bag to Patches.  Ireena takes a deep breath before hopping into the extra-dimensional bag.  Patches pops the cork off of a vial and drinks the liquid inside, disappearing instantly and sprinting off across the hall to the grand copper doors leading to Strahd and the chapel. Behind Tark and Patches, Gundren steps forwards on the grand stairs and pulls a special shell from his satchel, loading it into his Thundercannon and takes aim at the Young Red Dragon.   The dragon sees Gundren lining up a shot and dodges it's serpentine neck to the side, but just as it does so Gundren adjusts and squeezes the trigger, hitting the dragon squarely in the eye.  The dragon staggers into the nearby wall, molten lava dribbling from it's snout as it tries to recover from the very lucky dazing shot. 

  Seeing the animated bookcase veer towards the weakened Red Dragon, Fey'Anon turns to Rahadin and with a hand gesture and word of power, summons a massive, disembodied glowing tentacle in the villains path.  The tentacle swipes at Rahadin, attempting to wrap the Dusk Elf in a crushing embrace, but the elf leaps at the last second twisting in a somersault,  drawing his bejeweled scimitar in a two handed grip.  Landing, Rahadin slashes at the construct, damaging it and as he does so greenish liquid splatters to the marble floor from the scimitar blade - poison.  Urwen, Danica and Ezmerelda all rush forwards in an attempt to surround the silver dragon in Dusk Elf guise. Danica sprints into cover, but trips on the old stone floor, falling heavily against a nearby pillar.  Seeing his wife stumble, Urwen grants her a measure of protection with Sanctuary at the same time that Ezmerelda makes a hand gesture and several copies of the Vistani warrior blur into view around herself.  Buumi, close by, raises his hammer and shouts a prayer to help, blessing himself, Fey'Anon and Jack Meyer Johnson Matthews, just as the bard calls out for aid.  While calling to Buumi, JmJm flourishes his Cutlass and points dramatically at Tark while his hair blows in an unseen breeze...the monk vanishes from sight as a spell of Greater Invisibility wraps and suffuses Tark.  Cirrus sees his deadly ally vanish and decides to set the monk up for the most devastating attack possible.  He looks across the battlefield to the young red dragon preparing to breathe, recovering from Gundren's shot and is something the Warlock cannot allow.  He points his staff at the beast, releasing a small comet of energy that arcs down atop the beasts head.  The comet explodes, causing crackling energy to cascade over the dragon, paralyzing it just as the monk leaps directly at it's head, staff in hand (invisible). Though no one can see the monks attacks, they can hear the resounding cracks as the staff given to Tark by Bahamut himself, smashes into the chromatic dragon.  Scales shatter and one of the dragons horns splits in half, blood flying from the creature's battered face. Tark lands on his feet and pops the cork off a potion Cirrus had given him earlier, growing in size and power and the potion of growth takes effect.  The giant bookcase waddles quickly to the stunned dragon, past an invisible (giant) Tark and smashes the beast beneath it's animated shelves just as Gwen unleashes a flurry of magic missiles from her tail, into the wyrm.  

  Amazed and stunned by the sheer brutality of the attack on the young Red Dragon, Rahadin drops a globe of darkness over himself a split second before the Bigby-tentacle floats up and attempts to wrap him again.  Inside the darkness spell, the construct wraps Rahadin in a crushing embrace as he tries to dodge, briefly restraining the elf before he enacts some magic and misty steps out of it's grasp.  Rahadin re-appears on the edge of the darkness, still obscured, and hears Ezmerelda nearby.  Lashing out of the darkness with his blade, Rahadins strikes are misdirected and only end up hitting a mirror image duplicate.  In frustration, Rahadin whips two knives out of the darkness as Waldo lunges his spear into it, taking the unfortunate man in the neck and dropping him panting to one knee, the weapon embedded deeply.  Urwen takes the second knife in the gut through a seam in his armor and staggers backward crying out in pain as the poisoned dagger burns in his flesh.

  Across the room, the Red Dragon staggers to one side, breaking free of the paralyzing energy of Cirrus' spell and with a sharp intake of breath, a torrent of fire erupts from it's maw.  Seeing the foresight of the dragon's breath, Tark yells a warning and many dive aside avoiding the worse of the blaze.  The bookcase takes the brunt of the breath, quickly setting being set ablaze and reducing it to cinders in a matter of moments...The Dragon snaps it's jaws closed and with a flap of it's leathery wings, leaps clear of it's attackers to take cover behind one of the huge pillars in the chamber.  As it goes, Tark manages to get some solid hits on the creatures legs as it rises into the air.  Just as one dragon flaps to relative safety and cover, the other statue shatters out of the covering stone, a Young White Dragon striding forth with snow and frost already streaming from it's jaws.  The white dragon flaps forwards, soaring over JmJm and lands behind him.  The half-elf bard watches this majestic creature in awe (and a little bit terror) and lets out a proclamation of beauty in regards to the beasts appearance.  Tearing his eyes from the majestic creature, JmJm looks over to the hulking form of the Red dragon behind the pillar, obscured but still partially visible, and summons a psychic assault, laying down a stream of cutting words against the creature.  Battered and beaten, the young red dragon cannot defend itself against the charged insults of the Bard, profanities tearing into it's mind.  The young dragon sinks to the ground, breathing it's last as a single tear streams from a dimming red eye...

  The white dragon lands and breathes a stream of freezing air over Ezmerelda, Waldo and Urwen just as Tark calls out another warning.  Waldo staggers, slipping on the floor and falls behind a ceremonial shield propped against a crate, blocking the blistering cold from killing the man instantly.  Urwen dives aside, but the cold seeps down to his very bones and he gasps a prayer to Lathander, barely staving off an icy death as a healing spell fills him with lifesaving warmth.  Danica lets out a cry, thinking her beloved surely dead, but sees the man stagger to his feet, pale and covered in frost, but alive.  Inside the darkness, the bigby-tentacle swats at Rahadin, pushing him from the area and into the light.  Urwen turns to the inky blot of darkness and makes a cutting motion with one hand and the darkness blinks out of existence, a tired smile appears on the wereraven's face.   Arrow after arrow sails at the now visible Rahadin from Urwen's nieces on the grand staircase.  Rahadin flourishes his blade and dodges wildly, deflecting many but taking a few bad hits.  He yells out that the party will pay for killing his beloved Baba Lysaga, that she and his centuries of planning will bear fruit despite the interference of the party.  Patches cocks an eyebrow, unseen and invisible and Rockie-Talkies Gundren, asking if Rahadin meant that his "beloved" was the disgusting hag-witch they killed in the swamp.  The Dwarf replies that he thinks so, but she wasn't so bad - she at least had a bit of a beard.... 

    Urwen turns to retreat to cover after dispelling the darkness, limping stiffly away.  Rahadin plunges his blade into Waldo's chest just as the man begins to rise and throws a spinning dagger into the back of Urwen's head as the wereraven is retreating and the Dusk elf grins in satisfaction as Urwen falls dead to the ground.   Waldo slumps to the ground, lifeblood pouring from his chest and he looks over the battlefield seeing the titanic struggle.  All goes black for Waldo, as one of the last surviving citizens of Barovia dies.   Laughing and grinning, it is quickly wiped from Rahadin's face as a screaming and bereaved Danica sinks her daggers into his back, finding creases in his fine armor and he takes several solid blows before managing to turn and parry the last strike, forcing Danica to back off.

  On the stairs, the casters and ranged attackers have different problems.  The clatter of falling bodies splits the air behind the group on the stair landing as dozens of hollow, soulless peasants try to rush down the stairs to attack the party from behind, eerily silent.  The tripwires and greased stairs however have caused a mass of falling villagers to crunch to a deadly stop at the bottom of the steps, but as more keep falling, the landing becomes less and less deadly, the grease and traps spent.  Several villagers manage to extract themselves from the mass of fallen and stumble up behind Cirrus and Gundren, stabbing with rudimentary weapons but doing little more than occupy their attention as the crude implements are deflected by fabulous armor. 

  At that moment, the front doors of the castle slam open and skeleton warriors march inside, their steps in eerie unison as outside the main door a figure is silhouetted against the energy filled sky - Lady Wachter; the necromancer of Vallaki.  Across the vast hall, Mordenkainen skids to a halt, yelling out to an invisible Patches to avoid the door to Strahd and the chapel, that the ornate copper door is warded.  Patches responds curtly that maybe he should stop shouting her name so close to Rahadin and Mordenkainen quickly shuts up, not wanting to give her position away.  Summoning a torrent of energy, Mordy thrusts a hand forward and a crackling beam of scarlet energy slams into the doors and continues as Mordenkainen, Archmage of Oerth, sustains the assaulting Witch Bolt.  Seeing the door begin to glow hot and with sparks showering from the impacting spell, Patches pulls a ruby from her earring and tosses it at the door, becoming visible as she does so.  Mid throw, the ruby transforms into a small firefly that flies to the door detonating in a huge fireball.  The detonation, plus the witch bolt has the door glowing red hot and beginning to warp, layers of copper slagging away in sheets.  Stick lets out a whoop of excitement, directing some comments at Patches fireball that she rolls her eyes at.

  Fey'Anon surveys the situation and sees the skeletons marching into the hall and Lady Wacther behind them.   With a regal gesture, he points a finger at the grand doors to the castle, summoning his will.  A streak of light with small detonations along it's path, streaks through the open door and into the approaching skeletons.  A flash of light and a shockwave blasts from the entry hall, Fey's powerful fireball detonating and reducing the approaching skeletons to ash and ember.  Lady Wachter is blown back a step by the blast and her exposed skin is reddened from the heat of the fireball.   She stares in shock at the charred, slightly glowing, cracked stone where here minions had just been a moment before.  Her withered gaze looks up and into the grand hall of Ravenloft castle and she lets out a cry of rage, throwing one hand forwards causing another wave of skeletons to surge around her and into the castle and a cloud of choking, caustic gasses to hiss into existence around an exposed JmJm who had strode forwards into the center of the hall.  The bard turns as the cloudkill envelops him and stumbles backward out of the gasses, skeletons in close pursuit. Coughing, he sees the White dragon before him but facing away and concentrating on others. Smiling to himself, JmJm draws his blade in a flourish and darts forwards to attack the creature, drawing bloody lines in it's flank the inkblade begins to create a cloud of obscuring ash around him as he continues to spin his deadly sword.  Tark sees his allies converging on the dragon and shadowsteps to it smashing away with his staff, cracking scales and bone. The White Dragon would have turned to pounce on the Bard and invisible Monk, except that it had bigger issues, literally.  Buumi steps forwards, drinking a potion of growth and enlarging to the size of an Ogre.  The paladin hooks his hammer onto his belt and grabs one of the dragons horns with his remaining hand and begins to twist it's head to the side, restraining it painfully just as Cirrus' owl flutters down from the grand staircase.  Mid flight the owl begins to flip over itself weirdly and expands at a rapid pace it's proportions changing dramatically as it is polymorphed into a Tyrannosaurus Rex by the Warlock.   The giant lizard slams down to the marble floor, cracking it with tremendous force and it bites at the restrained dragon.   At the same moment the mechanical Gwen leaps at the dragon's hind legs, biting and clawing as Fey hurls a fiery blast at it.  The dragon goes into a frenzy, surrounded and being pummeled from all sides, it begins lashing out furiously and manages to throw Buumi off.   Flapping it's wings furiously, the White Dragon leaps into the air twisting and gliding as far away from it's attackers as it can get - Into the side hallway leading to the dining hall and a small tower staircase.  The dragon hovers in the air, staying aloft as it tries to catch it's breath from the wounds inflicted on it.  

  Now with no target directly before it, the T-Rex leaps over to Rahadin and attempts to snatch the villain up in it's enormous jaws, but the Dusk Elf nimbly dances to one side laying a wicked slash into the beasts maw as he does.  Recognizing the spell for what it is, and it's weakness, Rahadin misty steps to the middle of the hall and hurls a dagger at the distant Warlock, hitting Cirrus and interrupting his concentration. The T-Rex reverts back to being an owl in a tumble of limbs.  Not content with simply ending the spell, Rahadin follows up with another deadly dagger at the owl, hitting it and killing it in a puff of feathers.  Fey'Anon attempts to retaliate, hurling a chromatic orb, but Rahadin ducks out the the way and the spell flies harmlessly above and into a wall mural with a fiery detonation.

  Patches is getting impatient at the glowing doors and sees them weakening under Mordenkainen's continued assault.  Noting the hinges beginning to warp, she pulls her heavy crossbow from her back and lines up a shot, waiting for the perfect moment, and looses a heavy bolt at the door.  One of the hinges shatters in a spray of molten shards and the door falls out of the frame as the soft metal bends under it's own weight.  Sweat beading on his bald pate, Mordenkainen rushes through the door with Patches leading, into a long hallway lined with suits of armor, another set of the same ornate copper doors at the far end. This new set already glowing hot from the energy pouring out of the chapel.  Patches sags in disappointment, cursing, and Mordy nods his agreement, launching a Witch Bolt at the final door in another torrent of energy and shower of sparks.

  Lady Wachter releases her concentration on her spell of cloudkill, summoning her own Bigby construct to support her skeletal warriors.  The Skeletons march up to JmJm and begin their attack, but the Bard parries masterfully, blocking every hit save one glancing spear thrust.  Seeing his companion in trouble and about to be surrounded; Buumi, huge and titanic, strides forwards unsheathing The Ashbringer from his back.  The crystal greatsword flashes with light and Rahadin hisses in discomfort, flinching away even from a distance.  Buumi slams the massive sword down on top of a skeleton assaulting JmJm and the thing detonates in an explosion of sunlight, burning away the others attacking the bard.  Wachter's hand-construct strikes at the paladin in retaliation, but he blocks the attack with The Ashbringer, showering the area in azure sparks as the magic of both clash with a shriek of protest.  A Zombie Ogre stumbles into the main hall from the castle entrance, sent forth by Lady Wachter, but Gwen turns and pounces on the thing, knocking it to the ground and laying into it with bites and slashes from her claws and she begins tearing gobbets of rotten flesh from the monstrosity. 

  Up the stairs, more and more of the soulless villagers have made it down the stairs and threaten to overwhelm Gundren, and Cirrus as they pour forth.  Staggering from the thrown dagger, Cirrus looks behind and brings his staff to bear, the gemstone cap glowing with cold energy and looses a gale of howling cold into the oncoming riot, freezing the front ranks solid.  Gundren then tosses a flask of alchemists fire into the back of the crowd, causing many more to burst into flame from the grease coating them.  Cirrus backs up as even more of the feral peasants rush towards him, throwing bricks and knives while Gundren pulls his axe from his belt and begins hacking down peasants as they rush him, trying to bury him with sheer numbers...

  Across the hall, the Young White Dragon begins to prepare another breath attack, but unknown to it, Tark has shadowstepped above the flying creature and is even now descending upon it.  Seeing flickers of the future, Tark expertly strikes the creature and knocks it from the air, crashing to the ground below just as a handful of lesser vampires rush out of the nearby tower staircase, drawn by the commotion and desire to protect their master.  While they cannot see the Monk, they can smell his blood and attempt to grasp him blindly.  One manages to get a hold and draws him into a crushing hug, biting the monk and drawing upon his life-force.   The dragon to rushes away from the invisible, terrible thing that had been smashing it and flaps to land over behind Patches and Mordenkainen.  The vampire that has Tark doesn't know what it has in it's arms, but it's blood is sweet.  But then suddenly it's gone as Tark shadowsteps to chase the horribly wounded White Dragon.  Tark lands atop the creatures head and smashes his staff into it's skull, finally killing it and rides the falling creature to the ground.  Seeing the last dragon ally fall, Lady Wacther starts screaming at the group, calling them peasants and savages and summons a number of skeletons to rush into the hall to support Rahadin.  Before she can direct her hand construct to attack again, Cirrus dispels it casting a wave of chaotic energies into the glowing, giant hand shattering it into floating crystalline motes of energy.  Lady Wachter begins frothing at the mouth, screaming in an insane rage as her spell is undone.

  Rahadin, blinded and burned by the sunburst from the Greatsword knows that he's in a precarious position, as does Urwen's brothers and nieces.  Furious and wishing to avenge their family member, the archers fire shot after shot at the staggering Elf, several plinking off his armor, but several more finding their mark.  The two brothers, Kurt and Derrik rush in just as Rahadin yells out "I will not be slain here!" and with mocking tones, repeat the elf's words precisely as they jam pistols against his back and chest, pulling their triggers.  The musket balls rip through the elf and he lets out a cry of anguish which transforms into a roar - a roar that shakes the very castle and a vortex of shadow erupts from Rahadin, obscuring him and the brothers.  Within the vortex of shadow, a tremendous smashing shakes the castle and the tips of silver wings and that of a tail peek out from the obscuring energies.  Half of Derrik flies from the vortex, guts and viscera trailing and Kurt stumbles out the other side, heavily lacerated and partially crushed.  The wereraven looks up in horror as the vortex dissipates, revealing an Adult Silver Dragon - Rahadin - with shadowy energy and flickering orange lightning cascading around him in an aura of power.  Kurt looks up, and in a much smaller voice, repeats; "I will not be slain here..." as the Dragon bears down upon him with unbridled fury.  All eyes turn to the appearance of the monstrous beast, confirming beyond a shadow of a doubt that Rahadin is indeed a dragon.    The party looks in horror at the majesty of the beast and the power it wields.  Buumi backs off shaking his head, his legs going weak and he asks how they could hope to kill such a thing.  Others are similarly struck with terror as the chrome orbs of the dragon's eyes scan over the room.  With a mighty roar, Rahadin the Corrupted turns on the mortals that would dare challenge him...
