---
title: "Barovia - Session 17"
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: "Barovia"
session: 17
---

Peytr and his entourage have left and the group breathes easier as they hear the patrol leave and ascend the stairs.  Everyone relaxes for a moment and finishes up their short rest, steeling themselves against the horrors they know are in the rest of the castle and consulting the map for they best way down to the catacombs.  Buumi examines his irreparably damaged armor and sighs, shaking his head before re-donning the breastplate and Patches ties the headband of intellect around her head.  Patches' mind immediately expands, new possibilities and avenues of thought opening up to her. 

   The group decides that the secret staircase in the north west corner of the floor is the best way forwards and they head out from the relative safety of Cyrus' room.  Patches takes the point position and the group heads back to The Hall of Bones and the door Patches mentioned she saw the many specters and ghosts behind.  Heading into the Hall though, the group notices a large silver platter on the table, like that which would cover a large roast dinner.  The group discusses quickly and quietly, and to a person decide that it's a trap filled with horrible things.  Not getting the memo that they should avoid the trap, not trigger and fight it, Tark whips the lid off and is promptly attacked by a dozen dismembered hands.  Tark backs away quickly, deflecting and crushing a hand, ripping others from his body and crushing them and then shadowstepping away, leaving the hands behind to fall to the floor.  Patches whips out throwing knives, skewering two to the floor as cantrips and minor spells take out the few remaining.  Tark grins at the group and looks proud of himself, despite the several new cuts and scrapes from dirty claws.  Fey promptly pockets the silver platter and Patches heads to the door out of the room to the north.

  Seeing several ghosts again, milling around the destroyed room, the group turns to Buumi to deal with the undead.  nodding his helmeted head, Buumi pulls out his holy symbol and holy power begins to shine from it.  Buumi strides into the room, turning the Undead from him and pushing them back into the corners of the room.  The group rushes in, Patches leading as she quickly looks for traps on the next door, the one leading to a small office with the secret stair.  She finds the door trapped, but quickly disarms it and the group rushes in, Buumi at the back keeping the ghosts away.  They shut and bar the door, and find themselves in a beautifully kept office, clean and well used.  Intrigued, as this room shows more life than anywhere else in the castle, the group investigates and quickly determine that the office belongs to Rahadin.  With her vastly expanded intellect, Patches looks around the office and finds a drawer, open less than an inch and finds it out of place.  Checking the drawer, Patches finds a crystal orb used for long range communication and picks it up.  With her new intellect, she activates the orb and feels another mind answer that asks "What is it Rahadin?".  Patches drops the orb back into the drawer as her mind races.  She recognized the voice, it was the other speaker from the dream, the one in which the group heard Rahadin and another plotting to kill Ireena and free Strahd for Atropos.  Patches tells the group and they all agree - Cirrus disguises himself as Rahadin and perfectly imitating him, picks up the orb to communicate and try to deceive the person on the other end.  Cirrus as Rahadin, communicates that things are not going well in the castle, that the group of adventurers is more formidable and they might need another way out of Barovia.  The other person, who he deduces to be Baba Lysaga, reminds "Rahadin" that there is no other way out at this time, that they new this when creating Barovia that a shard of The Last Word is one of the only ways out.  "Rahadin" expresses his frustration with the group as Lysaga mentions she is in no place to help as she is dealing with the Were-Ravens and they both end the communication.  Cirrus resumes his normal form and relays his findings to the group.  Now knowing the identity of both speakers in the dream and that Baba Lysaga and Rahadin created Barovia with specific intent, Fey contacts Mordenkainen with the new information.  Morden finds it fascinating and relays to the group his new findings from the Tome of Strahd:

*Rahadin has been exploring this new land that I call my home.  He claims he has found a place of great importance, that I *need* to see it.  I will be riding out tomorrow with my Great Friend for an "Amber Temple".  Rahadin has advised me to prepare spells to combat the cold, and several Ice loving predators on the mountain.  It will be nice to stretch my magical "legs" again.*

*...*

*The next two pages are torn out.*

*...*

*I head to Altdorf tomorrow to meet with the Border Princes.  Rahadin warns me that they are plotting against me, that they fear my strength.  To that,l I say let them plot.  Not a one of them has the gift of magic that I wield, I could crush any one of them, any number of them.  Yet I hope to reach them with words and not violence.  Rahadin always counsels that a just king will reign long after his death, for his actions will echo for centuries hence.g*

*...*

*I already miss my new home of Barovia.  I have left Sergei to oversee the construction of my dear Ravenloft castle, I hope mother appreciates the name. I'm not sure how much oversight of construction he will have from a hospital bed, but Rahadin has things well in hand as Chamberlain.  I do worry about my young brother though. Despite his powers as a Paladin of Lathander, I fear he is out of touch with the common folk.  That is why I ordered he remain behind on this trip and why I demanded he not heal his broken leg.  He should heal like ordinary folk, I fear he has forgotten the frailty of what it means to be a man. I have commanded he not use the blessings of Lathander to heal himself, that he deal with it and live as any man would.  It will be good for him.*

*...*

*Ah my dearest Tatyana, each letter I receive from my wife lifts my very soul.  She writes to tell me she has extended a branch to Sergei and I can only hope that they set aside their differences.  It would not do well for the two people I love most in life to hate one another.  Maybe they can use my absence to forge some common ground and see the light in one another despite their headstrong natures.*

*...*

*I return tomorrow to Barovia.  This year of travel, away from everything that I love, has been hard.  Tomorrow I see my wife, tomorrow I see my brother and tomorrow, I see my kingdom once more.*

*...*

*Great joy, I am home once more.  A great feast was held in the honor of my return and all whom I loved were in attendance, save my wife.  Were that my parents were still alive to see what I have made.  Barovia will be known as a land of great prosperity, blessed by The Morninglord, as a beacon for all Oerth!  My love was sick this day unfortunately, but I saw her before the feast.  Despite her sickness, she was beyond words to see me.  Sergei attended the feast, but seemed rather preoccupied, was he avoiding me?  Rahadin looked as if he had swallowed a toad all night. Something is definitely bothering him, I know him too well for him to hide such a thing.*

The group looks around the office to find any mention of Altdorf and in an ancient book, find some travel plans to that city-state from long ago.  The picture they are getting of Strahd is that of a good and just king, not a monster.  The journal entries, coupled with what they saw at The Amber temple lead them all to believe that Rahadin did something to Strahd and manipulated him with Baba Lysaga.  Mordenkainen agrees with the assessment and tells the group that his research on the Crystal blade has yielded some results - as everyone suspected, it is a celestial artifact of great power, but the spark of it has been extinguished.  To re-forge the blade and make it whole again, the group would need the Grace of a Celestial.  Knowing it to be a long shot, Morden checked Barovia with scrying and to his surprise detected a celestial presence!  To the far west of the valley, in the walled city of Krezk.  The group looks to Ireena at this news, but she shrugs beneath her heavy hide armor, such things being beyond her knowledge. 

  With all the talking going on, Buumi had been keeping the door secure while Patches began investigating the secret wall for traps and Tark sat on the floor looking bored.  Fey and Cirrus cease their communication with Morden and the group pushes onwards, opening the secret stair with a button push.  The dark, damp and narrow stair descends ominously and Patches once again takes the lead to search for traps, Tark by her side. A few steps in, Patches hears and feels a small click as her delicate foot touches down on a step she swears she just checked.   Her and Tark dive backwards, up the stairs, just as a huge circular blade slices out from the wall cutting Patches arm as she spins away.  As the blade trap begins to reset itself, Patches darts back in with a small piece of metal and jams the trap.  With wide eyes and adrenaline pumping at the close call, Patches double checks the stairs before calling the all clear.  Patches stays in the lead with Buumi just behind, then Ireena and the spellcasters with Tark taking up the rear as the group begins their descent.  Cirrus sends his owl familiar up ahead and it alights in the rafters above a landing just as Patches descends to it.  At the back of the group, just starting to descend the dark staircase, Tark suddenly feels raking claws bite into his flesh and spins around to see a Shadow Demon descend upon him.  Backing up defensively, Tark give the thing a good smack, feeling it solidly beneath his Ki infused blows.  The group hears the commotion and begins to turn, Fey spied the lever to close the secret passage and pulls it, causing the stone wall to slide back into place, separating Tark and the Shadow Demon.  Down below, Patches gets to the landing, just as the attack happens upstairs and begins to turn, but movement in front of her stops her short - Strahd appears before her.  Eyes blood red, face contorted and his hands ending in wicked claws, Strahd tells Patches to "Turn back!".  Patches pulls a radiant bomb from her belt and holds it wardingly in front of her, preparing to detonate it right in Strahd's face.  At the top of the stairs, Tark backs up as the Demon pulls itself through the stone, landing hits on the creatures head as it comes forwards.  Fey lashes out with a blast of fire, but in the tight confines it splashes across the stone wall.  Buumi turns and tosses his hammer into the air, glowing and streaks directly towards the Shadow Demon, crushing it's head in a flash of radiance.  The thing disintegrates, leaving no trace behind.   Down below, Patches swings the bomb at Strahds' face, but her hand and the bomb go right through the illusion, dispelling it.  Patches breathes a sigh of relief and de-activates the bomb, putting it back on her belt.  The group continues it's descent to the catacombs...

   As Patches nears the bottom of the stairs, she notices another blade trap and disarms it, letting the group go past to the large dimly lit room below, and re-activates the trap after they pass it.  The group finds themselves in a large chamber.  At it's center is a huge brazier, a massive hourglass suspended above it by chains and different colored gemstones rimming the lip of the Brazier.  A plaque on the Brazier reads: "Cast a stone into the fire: Violet leads to mountain spire. Orange to the castle's peak. Red if lore is what you seek. Green to where the coffins hide. Indigo to the master's bride. Blue to ancient magic's womb. Yellow to the master's tomb".  The room has several passages leading off from it, all with staircases leading up.  Two huge alcoves in the room hold Iron statues of mounted knights and a large set of ornate double doors leads to the south and is ajar.  From beyond the doors comes a distant cough and feeble moans.  Noting the open door, Cirrus enters a trance to see through the eyes of his owl and sends the bird through the door to the south and begins relaying what he sees to the group.  Just through the double doors is a large balcony overlooking a flooded torture chamber.  Two thrones sit empty on the balcony and nothing stirs in the dark fetid water.  Torture devices lay strewn about, half submerged and covered in cobwebs having been un-used for centuries.  The owl flies on, down a half submerged hall and sees two offshoots that lead to dungeon cells.  The owl swoops in through the doorway, skimming the water and staying below the ceiling - which Cirrus notes is covered in yellow mold...The owl does a circuit of the north cells, noticing the sparkle of many coins beneath the water of several open cells and the glow of a small blade beneath the dark waters.  To the south, the Owl flies in an notices several corpses in these cells, one of which appears to be Rictavio/Van Richten.  In the farthest cell is a large bald man of dark complexion, shivering and leaning against the bars of his cell.  As the owl notices this, it's wings brush the ceiling covered in yellow mold, which releases a puff of spores. The owl inhales some spores as it flies on, killing the owl in a puff of feathers.  Cirrus opens his eyes, his familiar dead and reluctantly tells the group about the man in the cell and Van Richten.  Tark, hearing that people are in danger, calls upon his Ki and uses his staff to focus it and in doing so begins to fly.  Tark darts on in, skimming the water and avoiding the yellow mold on the ceiling.  Tark notices the treasure but thinks nothing of it as he makes it to the shivering man.  He says hi and Emil stumbles to the back of his cell, shocked by the arrival of a flying tiny bearded man.  The man introduces himself and Tark then proceeds to pry the cell open with his assistance.  Tark tells Emil to head back to the group as stealthily as possible and then flies over to check on Van Richten.  Emil swims, slowly and silently to the base of the balcony and calls up to the group.  The group lowers a rope and Emil is pulled up to the relative safety of the balcony, where he slumps against the railing in exhaustion.  Cirrus prestidigitates some warmth for the shivering man.  Un-trusting of a random human in a Vampire's dungeon, Fey advances on the exhausted man and grabs him by the collar, pressing the shard of ice that is his staff, into the hollow of the man's neck.  Scanning deep into the mans mind, and calming him with charming magic, Fey determines the truth of Emil.  Fey discovers Emil is a loyal servant of Strahd and a werewolf pack leader and would do anything to get back into Strahd's good graces.  Thinking furiously, Fey and Cirrus convince Emil that they are servants of Strahd and that Baba Lysaga has betrayed the Master and needs to be dealt with.  Under the friendly influence of spells and some very convincing words, Emil agrees to take his pack and attack Baba Lysaga for Lord Strahd.  Emil takes one of the colorful gems from the brazier and casts it into the fire, disappearing in a flash of colored light...

  Tark pries open the cell door in front of him and floats towards Van Richten.  With his knowledge of medicine, Tark realizes the man is dead from a distance, but notices two punctures on the Vampire hunters neck.  Getting close, Van Richten wakes with a start, his vampire fangs as evident as his pale and pallid skin.  Van Richten sees Tark and recognizes the small Halfling Monk, and he begs to be killed.  Tark grips his holy staff tight and impales the elderly man through the heart. Tark then pulls out his small knife and decapitates the vampire by sawing through it's neck.  It takes a few minutes, but the head eventually comes free and crumbles to dust in Tarks hand.  A traumatized and stunned Tark flies back despondently to the group and tells them there's nothing else of worth in the cells - Van Richten is dead.  The group is silent for a moment, reflecting on the death of the old man.  Eventually, Cirrus speaks up, mentioning that he had seen some treasure, a story Tark quickly confirms.  Fey and Cirrus summon unseen servants to ferry the treasure back to them, which they do over the next few minutes, gaining the group several thousand gold worth of coins and a small magical blade.  They identify the blade and are shocked to discover that it is one of the legendary Luck Blades - a small, ornate and jewel encrusted short sword with the power to influence the luck of the wielder in beneficial ways and grant wishes...Patches unties the headband of intellect and hands it to Cirrus as she scoops up the blade with wide eyes, maybe with the luck of the sword on her side, she can protect herself from the influence of her other weapon?

  Checking the map, the group heads north, up the second set of stairs to the catacombs proper.  Patches finds and marks the trap in the hall and the group makes it to the catacombs without incident.  They open the rough hewn stone slab that was the door and look inside, seeing a vast and dark chamber, filled with dozens of large stone "columns": the crypts.  The ceiling seems to writhe and the floor is coated in inches of stinking black sludge.  Fey sends out a number of dancing lights and thousands of bats swarm the lights before flying off.  Noting this, the group hangs back as Tark, his flight spell almost expired, decides to scout the catacombs by flying.  Tark zips through the air, silently and scouts the entire catacombs.  He counts two dozen crypts and three large mausoleums.  The first mausoleum, in the north is made of white marble, with a silver portcullis and adonis marble statues in alcoves at the back.  The second is made of black marble, with an Iron portcullis and alcoves in the back of the chamber, occupied by the Vampire noblewomen from the dinner, lounging on furniture.  The final mausoleum is larger and more ornate, but access is blocked by a blue, shimmering field of energy.  Tark returns to the group, but twenty feet from the exit, his flying expires and he falls to the floor, sliding in the inches of bat Guano.  The group decides to check the white marble tomb, which they correctly guess to belong to Strahd's brother: Sergei.  On the way to the tomb, they pass a number of Crypts, most occupied by minor (long dead) nobles.  One in particular however, interests the group immensely, as when they look inside, they see that the floor of the crypt has been hewed away, leaving a dark chasm down to the depths.  The group looks at one another in concern and Tark decides to go down to investigate, using his Shadowstep to quickly descend the pitch black shaft.  At the bottom, Tark discovers a series of tunnels, and after some VERY stealthy exploration, determines that the tunnels are filled with hibernating vampire spawn - long dead adventurers and barbarian warriors.  Tark Shadowsteps his way back to the group and relays what he saw.  The group, with this new information, is not even more worried about what would happen if Strahd makes it back to the Prime Material Plane.

  Shaken by the discovery of a slumbering Vampire horde, the group quickly heads to the Mausoleum of Sergei but find themselves blocked by the portcullis.  Buumi goes to lift it but finds it too heavy, even for him.  Tark simply shadowsteps through the bars and throws the nearby lever, raising the Portcullis.  Buumi however, does not realize and instead thinks he is responsible for lifting the bars.  The group enters the hallowed ground of Sergei's tomb.   Buumi approaches the coffin and touches the marble slab that makes up it's surface.  The slab de-materializes and the group can clearly see the body of Sergei Von Zarovich, perfectly preserved in fine noble clothing.  Ireena stumbles forwards, her mouth agape as she recognizes Sergei.  She moves up to the still corpse and finds a book - Sergei's journal, and hands it to Fey to put into the bag of holding.  Inspecting the tome, Fey sees that it too is written in cipher and decides to take it to Mordenkainen.  At the feet of the corpse is a bundle of ornate black leather armor, trimmed in iridescently shining raven feathers.  Cirrus identifies the armor and his eyes go wide realizing the power of the artifact.  He quickly dons the armor of the Ravenlord.  Buumi sees something else with the corpse however, something that calls to him, and picks from the remains a platinum greatsword hilt with a ruby set into the pommel.  Realizing that this is the hilt to go with the blade of the crystal great sword, Buumi hands it to Fey for safe keeping in the bag of holding.  With the last piece of the sword and Sergei's journal, the group decides they have pushed their luck long enough and that they should return to the teleportation brazier and find Mordenkainen's spellbook.  The group turns to leave the crypt of Sergei and hurry out of the bat infested Catacombs.  As they are leaving though, Buumi is drawn to a nearby crypt, one housing the long dead remains of a Paladin king.  Inside is a three faced plate helm and Buumi picks it up, replacing his own helm.  Buumi's eyes glow with minor enchantment from the ornate plate helmet.  Fey'Anon is also drawn to a tomb on the way out and makes his way past a crypt with the plaque reading "Khazan: his word is power".  Looking inside, Fey sees a bejeweled skull with Opal eyes, Amber teeth and gold plated bone.  Fey realizes that it is an unfinished Demilich Phylactery and pockets the artifact as he turns to leave.  Cyrrus however is not so hasty to leave and feels compelled to say the name of the tombs owner aloud: Khazan.  As he says the name, a beautiful staff or polishes silver, capped with a large diamond but otherwise unadorned, materializes above the marble slap of the coffin.  Cirrus grabs the staff and as his hand wraps it, lightning cascades through the chamber, focusing on the Warlock.  Cirrus wrests the staff from it's place and the lightning ceases, a few sparks flickering, but is otherwise unharmed.  Cirrus realizes the power of the artifact in his hand -  a Staff of Power...

  The group makes their way back to the teleportation Brazier and quickly decide to head to the library, which they assume is the "lore" the plaque speaks of.  Just as they move to pick up the correct stone, they see a purple light in the stairwell from Rahadin's office.  Luckily, Patches had trapped the secret door with a trip wire and the patrol comes crashing down the stairs in a heap - one Vampire knight and two shadow hounds.  As they crash down to the landing, Fey calls upon his staff and fills the stairwell with an ice wall, blocking the patrol from following just as the group casts the stone into the fire and teleports away.

  The group finds themselves in a beautiful octagonal room, each wall a massive bookcase and filled with books.  In front of them is a large wooden table, atop which is a huge and magnificently bound tome, and in front of that, two luscious armchairs and a fireplace, above which is a striking portrait of Ireena.  Sitting in one of the armchairs is Strahd, with a glass of wine.  The group stands absolutely still, not daring to move.  Tark calls upon his Ki and draws shadows around them with the spell Pass without trace.  They quietly discus what to do and decide on a plan.  Fey begins to quietly inscribe a teleportation circle as Patches grabs the large tome - Mordenkainen's spellbook - and hands it to Fey to put away. Just as Fey is about to finish the circle, Strahd casually comments that a teleportation circle won't work in Castle Ravenloft and the whole group stiffens in panic, realizing Strahd knows they are there.  Her mind racing, Patches walks forward to address the Vampire Lord.  Patches mentions that Strahd was not always a monster, and that he needs to forgive himself for what happened.  Striking a chord within the morose Vampire, Strahd stares into the fire - furious, but thinking over what Patches said, he tells the group to get out and leave immediately. Patches appeals to his humanity again, and Strahd screams at the group to leave!  They rush for the northern door of the library and stumble out into a large hall lined with marble statues.  As they enter the hall, two of the statues stir and step down from their plinths and turn to the group.  As the stone golems turn, the group also sees a purple light ascending the stairs at the end of the hall and turn to flee the other direction, heading for the roof.  The group makes it into the nearby tower, a huge thing, ascending and descending hundreds of feet.  As they look around, a huge, wan red light illuminates the tower high above, and a deep rhythmic pounding begins to sound from a massive crystal heart in the tower high above...
