---
title: "Barovia - Session 7"
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: "Barovia"
session: 7
---

The group finds themselves in the Den in Burgomaster Vargas mansion.  They look at one another, a little unsure how to handle the obvious madman in front of them.  They decide tact - Cirrus leans in and placates the man, agreeing with him, despite the obvious discomfort of Tark and Buumi.  Cirrus goes on to offer the groups services to the Burgomaster, to appraise the magical and monetary fortunes of the town.  Taken aback by this, Vargas excuses himself to discuss it with his wife.  Patches then steps from the shadows, handing off what she found in the study to Fey before heading to the Bluewater inn to secure the group accommodation.  Buumi decides to stay in the Den for when the Burgomaster returns and the rest of the group - through a mix of magic and stealth - leaves the den to begin exploring the house.  Tark heads through the kitchens while Cirrus, now disguised as Izek, heads up to the second floor, noting the many beautiful landscape paintings in the hallway.  The first door he tries is locked and just as he is about to move on, one of the maids spots him and asks if he misplaced his key again in a drunken stupor.  Going with it, Cirrus pretends to be drunk and gets the maid to unlock the door for him, discovering that it's Izek's room.  The maid hustles off to the ground floor.

Inside Isek's room are hundreds of dolls, all looking like Ireena...Searching the rest of the room, Cirrus discovers nothing but empty wine bottles and leaves.  The next room he opens is that of Victor, the Burgomasters son.  Once again however, there is little of value or interest in here save for a book on basic wizardry.  Tark at this point has managed to sneak by the cook, despite some close calls with the fat man in the tight confines of the kitchen.  Making his way up to the second floor via the back stairs.

Cirrus checks one more door, to find it locked, but looks in through the keyhole and sees a man, horribly beaten and tortured, chained to the inside of the small closet.  Reaching out, Cirrus touches Fey's mind and asks him to come up to the second floor.  Tark, Fey and Cirrus all congregate on the imprisoned man, and break open the door and free him from his bonds.  They determine the man is a local shoemaker, who had spoken out against the Burgomaster.  He was tortured and the group presumes he is to be burned at the next festival as an agent of Strahd.  They contact Buumi and he extricates himself from conversation with the Burgomaster, heading outside below a window.  The group then lowers the poor man from the window with a rope, but they lose their grip and the man falls on Buumi in a clutter.  As Buumi picks up the man and takes him to the Bluewater Inn, Fey spies Izek follow Buumi inside with two guards.  The group then turns around as they hear someone come up the stairs and are face to face with the Burgomaster and two guards, all with drawn and loaded flintlocks pointed at the group.  The Burgomaster had been informed of the groups defiance with the prisoners, and now that they freed the shoemaker, he is convinced they are agents of Strahd sent against him...but Cirrus is still in the guise of Izek.  Cirrus takes Vargas aside and convinces him that he has everything under control, that this is part of a grander plan.  Skeptical, but ultimately convinced, the Burgomaster leaves but tells his two guards to remain to assist Izek and asks Izek to go to the attic to have his son, the Mage Victor assist in controlling this group.  The party makes it to the trapdoor up to the attic and tire of their guard escort, putting them into a magical sleep.  The group checks some side rooms and finds a large vanity mirror, heavily enchanted.  They discern that it can summon a spectral killer, but may kill them in the process.  Never a group to leave something useful behind, they put the mirror into their bag of holding and continue on.

  Ascending to the attic, the group finds themselves surrounded by clutter, but with a clear path through the antiques and dust, up to a wooden door with a skull carved into it with the words "ALL IS NOT WELL!" underneath. 

Tark, using the magical sight of his eyepatch, sees a Glyph ward on the door and warns the group.  Fey and Cirrus decide that a direct approach is best and knock on the door, declaring that powerful spellcasters have come to talk with the fledgling mage of Vallaki.   A young man responds on the other side, arrogantly at first, but then excitedly as he realises that someone might be here to help him with his spells.

Victor disables his wards and opens the door and comes face to face with Fey'Anon in his mask, Tark and to his eyes, Izek.  He screams at Izek to leave and hurredly invites Fey and Tark inside.  Tark, out of his element begins inspecting the room, as does Fey.  They discover several dead animated cats, three weird dolls dressed as students that Izek claims are for "leadership practice" and an unfinished teleportation circle with a bloodstain in the center.  Both Fey and Cirrus notice that the Spellbook clutched in Victors hands is far too advanced for the young man to have written and they steal it and replace it with an illusion at the first opportunity.  Fey fixes the magical circle, but claims it still won't work.  Cirrus drops his disguise of Izek and he and Fey begin looking over the teleportation circle in earnest.  Talking with Victor, they find him to be as unhinged as his father, but unwilling to side against him.  They also discover that he murdered two of the family servants, using them as test subjects for the teleportation circle where they were torn apart by forces.  Seeing no further use for an unhinged, dangerous, murderer and wanting his spellbook, Cirrus charms Victor and has him step into the circle for a "lesson" at which point Fey empowers the circle, activating it and tearing Victor apart.  Fey takes the spellbook and is practically salivating for the chance to study it.  Tark, who was playing with the undead cats, immediately turns in horror upon the scene, demanding to know what just happened.  With his limited intelligence, Tark cannot comprehend what happened magically, but he can feel that something was wrong, that this young man - murderer though he was, was just murdered in turn by Fey and Cirrus.  Exasperated and upset, Tark turns to leave, an undead cat purring under one arm and the group quickly leaves the mansion, remembering Izek and the two guards that had gone to accost Buumi and Patches. 

Rushing to the Inn (not far from the Burgomasters mansion) the group enters to see two unconscious guards and an unconscious Izek amongst some scattered tables and Chairs.  Buumi is seated, having some minor wounds attended to by the proprietor of the Inn - Urwen Martikov.   Cirrus enters the establishment, disguised as the Burgomaster and pretends to be furious at Izek, claiming that in his drunkenness, Izek came to pick a fight and should have his demonic arm cut off in punishment.  Buumi and Tark, knowing that it is Cirrus, vehemently object, as does Urwen.  Tark picks up Izek and throws him through the nearest window into the neighbouring alleyway and Cirrus leaves the inn, drops the disguise and promptly returns as if nothing had happened.  Patches is nowhere to be seen, but the group thinks nothing of it and sits down to rest.  Urwen brings over a free meal and some free ale and wine and introduces himself, asking who the group sides with and what they intend to do here.  The group is non-committal, but Urwen says that if the group needs friends, if they go to his fathers winery - The Wizard of the Wines - to investigate why he has not received any shipments recently, he would consider them allies and assist any way he and his friends can.  Urwen takes his leave and the group scrutinises him, realising that he is not entirely human, but not being able to figure out exactly what he and his family might be.

About to rest, the group is interrupted by another patron entering the Inn, a tall, stately middle aged woman approaches the group and sits at their table, introducing herself as Lady Wachter.  She congratulates the group for being a thorn to the Burgomaster and offers her friendship to the group.  She tries to persuade the group to topple the Burgomaster and have her and her family take over as they have no emnity with Strahd.  Fed up of the local politics, the group refuses her advances, but lets her know that they do intend to overthrow Vargas, and leave the replacement up to the people of Vallaki.  Lady Wachter rises to leave, thanking the group for their time and assuring them that the town will pick her regardless.  As she leaves, the Tavern begins to settle back into it's proper rhythm.  The group settles back to mull over the events of the day.  It is about 3 o'clock in the afternoon but there are already several patrons in the inn besides the group.  A handful of civilians, two local trapper-hunters and the Martikov family.  A creak on one of the guest balconies above the group draws their eyes, where they see an inquisitive half-elf in a fine suit looking down upon them, with grey in his hair, an exquisite wide-brimmed hat and a fine ebony and mother of pearl cane, the half-elf makes for the stairs to descend down to the common room...
