---
title: "Neverwinter - Session 2"
chapter: 2
chapterTitle: "Neverwinter"
session: 2
---

The group looks around startled and no longer in Sha'Alazzi's tent.  Instead, they find themselves in what appears to be the bottom floor of a tower.  The room is Octagonal and while serving as the entry to the tower, also appears to be a library of sorts, with bookshelves and reading desks arranged throughout the space.  Ahead of the group is a large staircase leading up a level, but in front of it loom two horned creatures.  Seven feet tall, with pointed horns, elongated heads and flickering tongues, the two Devils heave their greatswords to the ready with supernatural ease.

The Devils question the groups presence in the tower, but JmJm calms their nerves with the soft strums of his harp.  Charming the Devils, he convinces them that he's not an enemy.  He almost convinces the Devils to escort the group through the tower, but one of them shakes off the enchantment.  Before it can attack the group, it's charmed comrade swings for him at JmJm's prompting.  The Devil misses so terribly, that it cleaves an invisible Imp in half from the air, purely by chance.  Gundren begins laying down fire, lighting rounds arcing from his cannon into the Devils.

Taking note of the cleaved imp, Dr. B notices the strange air currents in the room and determines that there are a number of invisible Imps scattered throughout.  The group, with the charmed Devil make short work of the un-charmed Devil, but four imps attack from invisibility.  The other Devil shakes off his charm as a crossbow quarrel from Patches strikes it in the back.  One of the imps attacks Buumi, two fly for Dr. B and the last goes for JmJm, who booked it over to the downed Devil to tear free it's skull as a trophy.  Patches manages one more sneak attack on the Devil as it stumbles over to attack JmJm.  Dr.B dispatches one Imp with a quick beheading with his Scimitar and another is shot from the sky by Lothli, while her wolves tear apart a third.  Buumi gets jabbed by an Imp Stinger before the wolves grab it and suffers from a gash under his left eye, the visor of his faceplate preventing a more serious wound.

JmJm is cornered however and pulls forth his hand crossbow, firing point blank into the bloody and bleeding Devils' head.  The bolt sticks into it's skull and it swings wildly at JmJm, cutting a line across his chest.  Buumi reaches out with healing however, closing the worst of the wound and another arrow slams into the Devils' back.  Patches rushes over and backstabs the badly hurt Devil, letting her enchanted dagger feed on and consume it's soul as it turns to dust.  The Final Imp is quickly dispatched by a lightning round from Gundren.

Investigating the room, the group finds three spell scrolls: A Spell of Unseen Servant, Mirror Image, and Lightning Bolt

The group heads up to the next floor.  Pushing through the wooden door, they enter a large empty room.  3 inches of water covers the floor and a large brass pipe descends from the ceiling in the center of the room, but ends about 6ft from the ground.  Investigating the room, Gundren discovers sigils on the ground, one of Rubies and one of Sapphires under the water on opposite sides of the room.  Looking further, a mural depicting battling fire and water elementals turning to steam is found and Patches discovers a button by each glyph. Expecting elementals to be summoned and needing them to combine in the center of the room, the group positions themselves to lure the elementals to the center.  The buttons are pushed and a flash of fire above the ruby glyph causes the water to coalesce on it's glyph into an elemental.  The group half heartedly attacks the two elementals, taking minor hits in return and continually pulling them to the center of the room.  As the two elemental behemoths get to the center and the pipe, they ignore the party, charging through them to crash together under the pipe in an explosion of steam.  The group dives out of the way, save for JmJm, who catches a blast of steam, burning his exposed skin.  The steam fills a magical container and pressurizes, going up the pipe.  This trick unlocks the door up and the group can continue to the next floor of the tower.

On the next floor, the group finds themselves in a simple hallway, the end of which leads to the stairs to the next floor.  Either side of the hallway has a single door and the group decides to investigate the left door first. Gundren and Patches move to it to investigate and determine it's unlocked.  Looking through the keyhole, they see ornate guest rooms long untouched, the dust lying thick.  A four poster bed is in a back alcove, it's drapes closed.  Patches sneaks into the room, making not a sound and gets close enough to see a rotting corpse of a woman strapped into the bed, thick leather bindings keeping her in place.  Wanting no part of whatever this may be, Patches leaves, closes the door and returns to the group.  The group decides that they want nothing to do with a strange strapped down corpse, but Gundren thinks they are being a bunch of wusses and kicks in the door.  In response, Patches locks it behind him, and the corpse comes to life, straining against the bindings and screaming at Gundren, who wastes no time in putting his great cannon to work.  The blasts rock the creature, but as quickly as it can be damaged, strange worms inside it regenerate the damage.  The group unlocks the door, despite Patches wanting otherwise, and start to fire crossbow bolts and arrows into the creature, but to little effect, the missiles being pushed out almost the instant they penetrate.  Buumi charges in, raising his Longsword and charging it with holy power.  As he nears, the creature vomits out an eel-like worm, that quickly slithers up Buumi and finds a seam in the armor.  Before it can burrow in, Lothli cuts it free with her shortsword and Buumi delivers a mighty blow to the prone undead beast.  The radiant damage of the enchanted sword has tremendous effect, burning and scarring the beast and causing it's infesting worms to pour from it, dying.  After a second mighty blow, Gundren shoots it again with a lightning blast and in it's weakened state, it explodes in a shower of giblets and burning worms…
