---
title: Barovia - Session 13
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 13
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "argynvost"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "doc"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gowain"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "ireena"
  - "kasimir"
  - "lolth"
  - "mediocris-dente"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "pickles"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "van-richten"
  - "zhengyi"
places:
  - "amber-temple"
  - "barovia"
  - "feanons-tower"
  - "oerth"
  - "silverymoon"
  - "vallaki"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "gwen"
  - "the-reaver"
  - "thundercannon"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
---

Cirrus leans against the wall of the stairway, his hand against his bloodstained side, Tark holding his hands against his back at the exit wound.  Buumi rushes down the stairs and casts a healing spell upon Cirrus, further closing the wound.  They look out into the hall ahead of them and see a huge hall, coated in amber, and a hundred small alcoves, each containing a beautiful Amber sculpture of a wizards familiar.  The group is drawn towards them until Patches points out that after Cirrus getting Kabob'd, she should probably go first and check for traps.  Moving through the hall, slowly and carefully, Patches finds several pressure plates along the floor and disarms them as she goes.  She checks the two wooden doors of the hall, finding one of those trapped as well and disarming it.  Behind, the group spreads out into the hall.  The last of the group to descend the stairs, Fey'anon notes a blast mark on some of the stones and a strangely long shard of ice against the wall there.  With an exclamation of excitement from Stick - on Fey's back, Fey realizes that the shard of ice is actually a Staff of Frost and excitedly puts it into his bag of holding before descending the stairs to join the group.

   The glittering amber hall fascinates the group despite the deathly cold.  Tark wanders over to the hallway connecting to the main chamber, noting a beautiful amber glaze coating the thing, reflecting everything.  After staring at his reflection for a moment, Tark realizes that it is not mimicking his movements and is screaming at him to flee.  With a start, Tark backs away, shaking off the surprise and warning the group that he thinks something is within the amber...The rest of the group quickly determines that the amber statuettes are all trapped, but simply and the group out thinks each trap and loots each amber statue, putting them into a bag of holding.

  The rest of the hallway consists of two wooden doors to ruined bedrooms, two slabs of amber closing off rooms and a third with the slab of amber open.  Investigating the southernmost room with truesight, they only see a massive aura of power emanating from within, seeing no shapes on the other side.  Patches and Fey investigate the bedrooms, coming across a scroll of Wall of Fire and an angry Poltergeist that started throwing furniture at them.  Tark however, with his truesight active, kept catching the furniture and tried to placate the spectre to no avail, eventually leaving the room disappointed.  The group mulls over where to go next, knowing that this place is dangerous and they are on the clock, when Fey reaches out and feels the presence of four curious minds.  Making contact and determining them to be non-hostile (at least for now), Fey goes to investigate, heading to the one vault chamber with the door open.  peering inside, with the group hot on his heels, Fey finds an amber chamber with three alcoves.  In two of the alcoves are huge slabs of rough Amber, orange light and shadow swirling within.  The far alcove has a shattered Amber crystal in it, pieces littering the ground.  From the shadows of the chamber, four hunched and scaly figures peer at the group, each with a single, huge, green eye. The Four Nothics echo one another, asking the group telepathically to trade secrets for secrets.  Coming to the temple for knowledge, the group accepts as Tark goes to show them his scars. 

   With a bright flash, the group finds themselves in a vision.  In a rough hewn chamber of an ancient Barrow, the group sees a necromancer with a bloody dagger at a sacrificial altar, surrounded by orcs and undead minions and with a pile of dead civilians beneath the altar.  A cage in the corner holds a few innocents waiting to be killed, including a small halfling boy, staring at a dead halfling girl atop the pile.  The real, present Tark stands and stares, numb, at the scene.  The group notes the necromancer wearing a symbol of Zhengyi just before the entrance to the chamber bursts inwards and an adventuring group comes blazing into the chamber.  A huge Tortle wielding a halberd, a Centaur, a fiery sorceress, and elderly druid and a simple and plain looking man set about slaughtering the evildoers.  The simple looking human man bee-lines it towards the caged innocents, a whirlwind of punches and kicks, each shattering bone.  He makes it to the cage and smashed the lock, reaching inside.  He pulls out a small, teary eyed and traumatized child-Tark from the cage...

  Another flash and another vision, this one beginning in abject darkness.  As everyone's eyes adjust, the group can just make out an opulent chamber, high obsidian archways supported by ornate pillars.  Dark gems encrusting a dome and beautiful marble, female, elf statues rest in alcoves.  Every surface is intricately carved with spider and web designs, and a magnificent statue of onyx, depicting Lady Lolth in her half spider half drow form, is framed by the magnificent columns.  A soft red spotlight magically eminates from the domed chamber, shining down on a kneeling, supplicating figure at the foot of a regal and magnificent Drow high priestess.  A young Patches - Aliya, is the girl at her feet.  The priestess berates Patches, as more and more of her sisters - all high priestesses of Lolth - emerge from the darkness surrounding her.  They pull their wicked snake headed whips from their hips and begin whipping Patches, beating her and berating her.  The last thing the group hears is Fatima, the oldest, leaning in and whispering into Patches ear, that she will join them, or die...The real Patches turns from the scene, unable to witness it any longer.

  A flash of light and the scene changes dramatically, causing everyone to blink in surprise.  An opulent birthing chamber of a human noble greets the eyes of the group, a noble couple engaged in the birth of their child.  With a grunt of final exertion, the woman falls back to the pillows and a baby's cry rents the air.  The midwife looks up in horror at the woman, and then in fear at the nobleman.  The babe in her arms is a grey Tiefling, not a human child.  In a fit of rage, the nobleman pulls forth his knife and slays the servants present.  Taking the devilspawn and casually throwing into the arms of his wife, he spits on them both and demands the woman kill the child.  The man then storms from the horrific room, leaving the woman weeping.   A flash forwards and the group sees the child still alive, being reared as a peasant, his mother having disobeyed and secretly helping him for many years financially.  Another flash and the Tiefling - now obviously an adolescent Cirrus- is grifting and conning people on the streets.  In an escapade gone wrong, he's caught conning a nobleman and thrown in jail - to be hanged the next day.  Unable to bear the death of her child, Cirrus' real mother visits him in jail and tried to get him out.  She is followed and her husband finds out, storming into the prison and having her killed, then framing Cirrus for the murder of his own mother.  He's left alone, his death coming with the sun-rise, cradling the dead form as his mother and praying to anyone for help.  A great toothy smile erupts in the shadows, larger than anything human, and the disembodied mouth promises that help has arrived...

   A Flash and the scene changes again to a magnificent city of marble columns and great domed buildings.  An elf child is standing in a street drenched in silver faerie light. The street and buildings are crafted entirely from white and green marble.  Soft music drifts through the air and gentle fragrances waft on the breeze and graceful Eladrin meander peacefully.  The scene is shattered when a sudden earthquake shakes the city.  The sun suddenly goes dark and meteors of blue flame streak across the sky.  The crowds of previously serene elves erupt in panicked chaos as scores fall limp.  In the background marble spires begin to crumble and collapse.  The child falls to his knees, crying and helpless as the world comes apart around him and he's engulfed in an avalanche of dust.  A flash forwards and an older Fey is uncertainly walking down a dock having just gotten off a boat.  It's evening.  Snow is falling.  Balder's Gate looms in the background.  Fey's wearing a backpack, but otherwise isn't carrying any luggage with him.  He looks out over the city and sighs deeply - his breath forming a cloud in the cold air.  Fey pulls his hood up, self-consciously covering his Eladrin features as he sets his jaw and sets off into the chaos of the docks.

  The scene changes again in a flash of light and the group sees a magnificent manor house interior, a landing atop a flight of hardwood stairs, summer light flooding in through an ornate window.  A young boy of eight or so, with bright red hair and freckles, battles a smaller and younger girl, both of them using wooden swords.  The girl is clearly better, landing stinging hit after hit on the older boy who is getting more and more frustrated.  The girl darts in and manages to smash one of Buumi's fingers on his sword hand, he drops his weapon with a cry of pain and tears well up in his eyes.  The girl comes in, concerned, trying to say sorry.  Buumi lashes out at her with a cry and shoves the girl.  She stumbles backwards, tripping on the dropped sword and tumbles down the stairs with a series of sickening cracks.  Buumi, crying in horror at what he has done, runs down the stairs to her still form at the base of the long flight of stairs...

 The scene changes one last time, to a beautiful jewel of a city.  Spires of silver and marble rise high into the sky, light shimmering off them and reflecting in the marble streets.  Two dwarves are walking the streets of Silverymoon, one is obviously Gundren, the other is his grey-bearded and elderly father.  Pa-Rockseeker is happy, slapping a scroll pouch and proclaiming that with the new designs, they will be the envy of the north and Mithril hall will sing their praises among the clan.  Gundren helps his elderly father along, when they begin to see more and more soldiers marching with a purpose, then the war-horns begin blaring.  Smiling and patting his hand-axe, Pa-Rockseeker proclaims "A Battlehammer never misses a fight!" and scales the walls with his son.  Before them, the fields outside the city are thick with a horde of orcs, giants and ogres.  Thousands of them vibrating the ground beneath their feet, a horde the likes of which stuns the Rockseekers for a moment.  The city defenses begin to activate as mages rush along the parapets from marble statue to marble statue.  The massive sculptures coming alive and stepping from their perches, firing lances of fire from magnificent golden spears into the oncoming horde.   At the base of the city wall, a blue shield begins to climb into the air, encircling the city.  A mighty crash from the city center causes the Dwarves and many defenders to turn and look inward, just in time to see another massive block of stone crash through the central Citadel of Silverymoon, causing the spire to come crashing down.  Outside the city walls, the magical shield blinks out of existence.  The Rockseekers eyes go wide as two massive and ancient white Dragons plummet out of the roiling clouds, spraying white icy death along the city walls, quickly approaching them.  With only moments to act, Pa-Rockseeker grabs the sapphire broach from his breast and slaps it onto Gundren, just as the ice washes over them.  As the cold fog clears, the parapet is coated in ice, and Pa-Rockseeker falls, crumbling into icy chunks, as an unhurt Gundren looks on in horror...

  The group finds themselves back in the Amber temple, breath puffing out in great clouds as they all breath heavily.  Many tears, stain many faces.  Gundren turns to Gwen, his masterpiece of artificing and whispers to her "Pa *would* be proud..." and pats her on the head.  Patches is busying herself in a corner, trying to remain unnoticed.  Tark turns to the Nothics and proclaims, with a shaky voice, that this was a trade and the group has earned a secret.  Another flash, but the scenery remains mostly the same.  The location in the temple is the same, but it is clearly many centuries ago as the place is in far better repair and there is far less dust.  In the alcove, all three amber crystals are intact and Rahadin, the Dusk elf Chamberlain of Strahd is standing in front of it, a red-eyed lich floating a few paces behind him, watching.  Rahadin proclaims to the lich - Exethanter - that he and his brother should destroy him and be done, but the lich is lucky it has vital knowledge of The Amber Temple.  Rahadin seems interested in the crystal in front of him, touching it gingerly, and his eyes go wide.  A voice from another part of the temple calls out, saying they are leaving.  Rahadin responds to his "brother" saying that he will be along presently.  Hearing this, Tark rushes to try and catch a glimpse of the second speaker and manages to see a familiar figure ascending the steps out of the main temple - Argynvost, the silver Dragon (long dead in the present).   The group looks at Rahadin, realizing that this elf is in fact a Silver Dragon.  Rahadin turns to leave, brushing past Exethanter the lich.  Exethanter looks at the amber shard, as if hearing a conversation and then nods, making a fist and shattering the amber with force of will.  From the shattered crystal pours forth a black mist.  The mist snakes it's way out of the temple and after Rahadin...

  The vision fades with the grandeur of the temple and the group is back in the present.  Tark is looking down the hall and out into the main foyer, his truesight still active and just in time to see a humanoid Fox, wearing purple robes and spectacles, turn a corner heading back into the foyer.  The fox looks up just as Tark notices him and they both freeze for a moment, then explode in motion, taking cover back in the halls they had both come from.  Tark frantically tries to signal the group and Fey simply reads his mind, informing the group the Arcanaloth is aware of them.  Kasimir, who had been far back and trying to stay out of the groups way, swears and then mutters a spell, becoming invisible.  Tark makes his way back over to the group as they discuss what to do.  

  Fey is getting more and more interested in the shards of amber, and after a moment, decides to investigate.  He places a hand on one of the slabs and is contacted by the entity within, being promised a gift in exchange for taking into himself a piece of the entity.  Fey sees a dark well, descending into an infinite depth, the walls filled with millions of scrolls...  Fey thinks for a second and comes up with a plan, he then agrees to the entity.  As the fragment of the Dark Power takes residence in his soul, Fey hits it with all his will, trying to drive it into his ring of Spell Shielding.  Taken off guard, the entity is hard pressed to gain a foothold, but manages to hold on for a moment, even gaining ground in Fey's soul before Fey manages to expel it with his remaining willpower.  The entity fills his ring and Fey slumps with exhaustion...but smiles as he realizes he can call on this entity periodically and scry far off places with it's power.

  An agonized scream has the group all turning to look down the hall as Kasimir becomes visible, dark energy coursing over his body.  He falls dead to the ground and the group rushes to form a defensive formation.  Patches feels the power of the spell and it feels familiar, much like the Finger of Death her cursed weapon can produce.  Tark rushes over to the dead Kasimir and begins dragging his body from line of sight of the main foyer.  As he does this, Kasimir's corpse comes alive as a Zombie and tried to claw at him.  Dodging and darting back, Tark is unhurt and unmarked until Gundren blows the head off the zombie with his Thundercannon, splattering Tark with gore.  Tark takes cover on one side of the hall leading to the Foyer, and Buumi takes up a position on the other side.  Tark looks into the foyer but cannot see the Arcanaloth.  Patches climbs the walls, perching up on the ceiling.  Fey in the back is quietly (telepathically) conversing with Cirrus and he enacts the magic of the entity in his ring, scrying for the lich Exethanter - the guardian of The Amber Temple.  He quickly finds the lich floating around his dusty chambers, reading a book.  The lich looks up, directly into the gaze of Fey and cocks it's emaciated and desiccated head, it's glowing red eyes showing curiosity.  Fey converses with the lich, and entices it from it's room.  Exethanter floats down a set of stairs behind the great statue in the foyer and seems to converse with someone.  The group finds out that he has had the Arcanaloth stand down temporarily so he can talk with the party.  Fey and Cirrus approach the Lich with the rest of the group not far behind and very much on their guard, Buumi getting more and more uncomfortable with this unholy place.

  After conversing with the lich for a few minutes, they quickly figure out that the creature is senile and it loses interest in the group and begins to float away.  Fey pulls the scroll of Greater Restoration from his pack and is about to use it when he spies Tark out of the corner of his eye, the streak of grey in his beard standing out.  Fey second guesses himself and lowers the scroll...and Cirrus snatches it from his hand and rushes after the lich, casting the spell on Exethanter just as he makes the top of the stairs.  The magic rushes from the scroll and Exethanter suddenly stops, floating in the air and twitching slightly.  The lich turns around, looking at Cirrus with a massive rictus grin and with a great sigh of relief, rushes down to Cirrus, thanking him profusely for restoring his mind.  The group gathers around the lich, still uneasy, but determine him to at the very least, not be an enemy.  Stick warns them not to trust Exethanter and the group readily agrees, but also agree to a quick tour from the Lich.  Exethanter has the temple defenses stand down and pokes his head into the destroyed vault, tsking in disappointment.  The group find that in exchange for accepting gifts from the dark powers imprisoned here, Exethanter will reward them with their choice of treasure from the vault, or knowledge from the library.  Noting that Fey has already accepted a gift, Exethanter happily directs the mage up the stairs to the library.  Fey takes off at a sprint.  The lich then shows the group the treasure vault, the Amber slab of a door simply melting away at a gesture from the lich and golden light pouring forth into the foyer.

  Patches and Cirrus are drawn to the golden light, unable to help themselves, they look upon the treasure of the Amber temple.  Piles of gold, gems, art and other precious items litter a large chamber, ringed by amber statues, with a huge eagle headed amber statue at the center of the chamber, huge cracks rending the far wall of the room.  The lich makes it clear to only take from the horde with his permission or face consequences...

  Enticed, Cirrus speaks up, asking if there is a "gift" here that would give him strength and make him harder to kill. Curious, the group follows the floating lich to one of the side chambers - amber vaults - containing three of the Amber shards.  With another wave of his hand, the door melts and Exethanter floats inside and the group hears two large almost wet footfalls as an invisible creature steps out of the way.  Cirrus follows inside the vault on the heels of Exethanter.  Cirrus approaches the crystal indicated by Exethanter and places his hand upon it.  He sees a fiery titan rising from a world aflame, knowing great strength would be his if he accepts the gift.  Remembering the Tooth Fairy and the terror of being it's slave, Cirrus stumbles back from the imprisoned entity, shaking his head.  Exethanter chuckles in disappointment, and like a father consoling a child, tells Cirrus that he has all the time in the world to reconsider, and as a gesture of good will, he can take a single item from the treasure vault.  Asking which item, Exethanter responds to Cirrus saying simply "you will know...".  The group (sans Fay) heads back to the treasure room.

  Meanwhile, up in the library, Fey is paralyzed by indecision.  He stares dumbfounded at the thousands of spellbooks for several long moments before mage-handing one after another down to him - trying to find one in a language he knows.  After several more agonizing minutes, he finally finds a spellbook in Draconic and his excitement mounts as he reads through it.  Looking around the room, Fey spies a magical writing desk materialize with everything he would need to inscribe spells and he rushes to it, beginning to methodically transcribe two incredibly powerful spells: Wish and Power word: Kill!

  Cirrus in the vault finds what Exethanter promised him; a small crescent-moon blue bladed sickle, with a black glass hilt and moonstone pommel.  Cirrus picks it up and immediately feels the connection with his patron strengthen.  Cirrus turns to Exethanter and thanks the lich profusely, to which it responds that it hopes to see Cirrus again soon.  Patches has begun to shiver uncontrollably as the cold finally seeps into her bones and through chattering teeth, she asks the group if they could kindly get the hell out of here.  Before leaving however, the group asks Exethanter where Strahd was turned into a Vampire. The lich leads them through the crack in the back of the treasure vault, inspecting the damage along the way with a disapproving eye.  Opening up into a large chamber, with three amber alcoves, six ornate coffins lining the walls and a spiral stair at the far wall leading up to the libary, the lich floats into the room, gesturing at the coffins.  The group hears the clicking of locks and when asked, Exethanter says that he does not wish the group disturbed.  Cirrus enters the chamber, scanning it and sees marks on the floor by the stairs and goes to investigate, finding a teleportation circle.  Meanwhile, Tark approaches the crystal Exethanter indicated as granting Strahd his powers.  Tark touches the crystal and sees himself standing in an endless plane of blood, forever young.  Tark steps back, thinking about it, mulling over the possibility of fighting fire...with fire.  Across the room, Patches is drawn to another gleaming crystal, placing her hand on it she sees a dead planet, suddenly reborn and rejuvenated and knows that with this power she could bring back those she has loved and lost.  She's broken from her reverie by Buumi's hand on her shoulder and he tells her whatever it's offering, it's not worth it.  She closes her eyes and turns away from the crystal...

  Tark walks back over shaking his head, saying he's done with this place.  Tark and Buumi head up the stairs with Exethanter to collect Fey.  Up in the astounding library, Fey is just wrapping up, now even more tired from the mental and magical drain of transcribing such powerful spells.  Fey collects himself and heads down the stairs to empower the teleportation circle.  Just as Buumi and Tark head to follow, they feel something different calling to them.  Looking through a doorway, they see Exethanters chambers and move to investigate.  The once grand chamber, now mouldering and covered in dust, looks much like they would imagine an arcane laboratory would look like.  One thing does catch their eyes however, a white silk shroud covering something on a velvet pillow tucked away in a corner of the room.  Tark and Buumi approach and pull back the shroud.  Exethanter hisses and averts his eyes, telling the goodly characters to take the cursed thing from his presence as he cannot touch it.  The two of them see a magnificent crystal blade (no hilt), five feet in length and etched with intricate filigree the length of it.  A hollow channel runs the length of the crystal blade, creating a windowed section.  Both Tark and Buumi can feel the goodness of the blade and it lifts their spirits to finally find something so profoundly *right* in Barovia.  They carefully wrap the blade in the shroud and Buumi secures it to his back.

  The group reunites at the teleportation circle downstairs just as Fey notices the last crystal in the room.  Locking eyes with Exethanter, Fey asks telepathically if it offers what he thinks it does.  The lich nods and smiles knowingly at Fey.  The group teleports from the temple, farther down the mountainside to the ice encrusted watchtower of Tsolenka pass.  Fey, Patches, Gundren and Cirrus all remain in the tower, breaking down ancient furniture to burn for a fire, warming themselves while Buumi and Tark trek the short distance up the mountain to retrieve Van Richtens' wagon and their mounts.  An hour or so later, the resting group hears the wagon approaching over the cobblestones and they poke their heads out of the tower, seeing Buumi pulling the wagon as Tark stands atop it keeping watch, the wagon flanked by Aurora and Kitty, the tiger mounts.

  The group mounts up and races down the mountainside as fast as they dare, having the wagon up on two wheels during some tight corners.  The group is heading for the last known location of Mordenkainen, to Vallaki and then across Lake Zarovich to the slopes of Mt. Baratok.  Making good time, the group makes it down the mountainside and approaches Vallaki, only having lost a few hours to travel.  Suddenly a wolves howl splits the night air and the gleam of dozens of eyes reflect out of the woods.  Not stopping for a pack of wolves, Tark spurs the phantom horse on faster, running over a wolf that was too slow to get out of the way.  Galloping on past and quickly approaching Vallaki, Cirrus illusions himself to look like Ireena and has the city guard hastily open the gate. The wagon bounces over the cobblestones, past the burned out church and bloodstained street from the battle with Gowain and past the Bluewater Inn, heading north towards the lake.  Meanwhile, in the back of the covered Wagon, Buumi had been praying to Helm.  Coming out of his prayers, Buumi goes to Patches to see if Helm's might can lift the curse of Patches' sword.  Buumi lays a hand on Patches arm and a pulse of holy energy washes through them both, washing away a curse...but not the one intended...

  The wagon rolls to a stop at the "docks" of Vallaki, a single jetty extending some 50ft into the water with two large rowboats tied up to the end.  Out in the lake, they notice a small light on a rowboat in the middle of the lake.  The group piles out of the wagon, turning to their mounts and having Aurora lead Kitty back to the Bluewater Inn to stay with Chekhov and Mr. Pickles.  The group hurries down the wooden Jetty to the boats, but Patches stops them to talk for a moment.   Patches explains that Buumi did manage to lift a curse on her, but not that of her sword.  She tells the group that after the fight with Gowain, when Rahadin wen't around healing everyone, he covertly placed a Geas upon her to kill Ireena, with Stabby, when commanded.  The group stands dumbfounded for a moment as several pieces of information fit together;  The dream from a few nights before had two figures mentioning that Ireena needed to be killed and her soul destroyed - Stabby would do this, and Rahadin appears to have been the one to order it.  But after visiting the Amber temple and seeing a vision of the past, they know Rahadin is a Silver Dragon and brother of Argynvost and Silver Dragons are good.  Rahadin in the vision was followed by an entity from the Amber temple though...Now more than ever, the group is determined to find the Archmage of Oerth - Mordenkainen.  Fey communes with Stick, getting an affirmative that Morden is across the lake, somewhere on the slopes of Mt. Baratok.

  Heading onto the lake, Tark is rowing one boat, Buumi the other.  They make good time across the still waters of the lake, it's surface reflecting the night sky.  About to pass the midpoint, the group notices they are coming up to the boat they noticed earlier, it's lantern bobbing.  In the soft light, they can see a dreary, portly middle aged Barovian man fishing.  The group slows down and asks the man what he's up to.  "Just fishing" he replies, mentioning something about using good bait.  A small form bobs up and breaks the surface of the lake near the mans boat.  He adjusts his little rowboat and takes an oar, pushing the form down under the water, saying something about bait again.  The group asks the man what's in the sack, and indeed pull it from the water and open it, finding a drowned little girl. Tarks eyes go wide in rage and he shadowsteps to the man in the boat, snapping the mans neck with a powerful kick.  The group is completely surprised by Tarks outburst and can't let the man just die, not even knowing if he murdered the little girl, despite the circumstances.  Buumi quickly rows over and grabs the dying man, reviving him with a burst of healing magic.  The man sputters and Buumi calls upon a zone of truth, forcing the man to speak no lies.  They ask him about the little girl and he admits to murdering her.  Fed up with the darkness of this place, Buumi hauls the man overboard and with a single arm, holds him underwater, starting to drown him, Buumis face is emotionless.  The group all call to him, saying a drowning is not the way and Buumi relents, pulling the man out of the lake and into his rowboat.  Unnoticed to Buumi, blood from the man falls into the depths of the lake...The group decides to punch a hole in the bottom of the mans boat and leave him in the middle of the lake.  Rowing about 100ft away, the group is stunned as massive tentacles erupt from the lake, pulling the unfortunate man and his boat into the depths.  The group rows faster.

  Finally making it to the shore at the foot of Mt. Baratok, the group disembarks and begins to climb through the foothills and forest, a thick mist hanging between the tall pines.  After an hour of steady ascent, all is utterly quiet until a large rock, a small boulder even, sails through the mist, swirling it in it's wake, and smashing into Fey'Anon.  The group dives for cover behind rocks and trees and all ready themselves for trouble.  Everything remains silent until another rock sails in, smashing into the ground right next to Cirrus.  Patches circles, trying to pick an enemy out of the gloom but sees nothing.  Suddenly a massive simian form appears behind Buumi, nearly ten feet tall and covered in thick layers of corded muscle and heavy brown fur.  A flash of yellow eyes and the Genoskwa's claws slash into Buumi as it turns invisible again.  Finally seeing the beast that haunts the forests, patches covers the area she predicts the monster to be in with Faerie fire but it counters the magic with a wave of it's hand, quickly becoming invisible again.  The beast taunts the group, showing that it can speak, and think.   Guessing it's location, Gundren unloads with his cannon, hitting nothing but trees and destroying some in the process. While reloading, Gwen makes a guess and leaps and luckily, lands right on the Genoskwa's back, Gwens claws can barely hurt the beast though and she's quickly thrown from it's back.  Not before Tark steps in and deals a flurry of blows to the Genoskwa, but it's as if he's punching stone and the beast resists much of his damage.  Patches rushes forwards and aims carefully, firing her newly fixed pistol into the back of the creatures head, but the lead ball falls to the ground from it's fur, flattened.  Buumi leaps forwards to smack the creature as Cirrus pummels it with eldritch blasts.  Fey attempts to stun it with a spell, but just as he releases the magic, the beast counterspells him and the magic fails.  The beast disengages from the group, becoming invisible once more and the group returns to a defensive posture.  On a hunch, cirrus casts a powerful hypnotic pattern down the hill where he thinks the Genoskwa might be.  Sure enough, a huge thud and the beast becomes visible, lying on the ground incapacitated.  The group rushes forwards to surround and attack it, landing a few blows before it manages to extricate itself, barging past the group, bleeding from several wounds and showing no further interest in the fight.  It stumbles away from the group and Buumi throws his hammer at the back of it's head, and with a crack, it falls un moving to the forest floor.  The group approaches cautiously, but realize it's dead after a quick inspection.  Inspecting the corpse, Cirrus finds a small unremarkable leather satchel, but on closer inspection discovers it to be a bag of devouring.  Hurt from the beasts powerful blows and having to expend a large amount of powerful magic to take it down, the group looks up the misty hillside, up to the mountain and realize that they very much want to find Mordenkainen soon.  The night is waning and the group has been adventuring hard these last few days.  Exhaustion begins to set in as the group begins trudging up the mountainside, led by Stick to find the Archmage of Oerth.
