---
title: Barovia - Session 16
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 16
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "argynvost"
  - "bahamut"
  - "boris"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "ireena"
  - "jack-mayer-johnson-mathews"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "sergei"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
places:
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "ethereal-plane"
  - "feanons-tower"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "holy-symbol-of-ravenkind"
  - "the-reaver"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
---

The Stone golem lies in a heap of crushed stone and oozing tar and Gundren fades into mist, leaving the group.  Tark sags against the wall in weariness and Buumi rushes over to provide some healing.  Looking around, the group sees Steven at one door, looking through the keyhole and another door farther down the hall with moldering crates outside that looks like they leads to a dining hall of some kind.  Tark moves up cautiously to the doors but as there's no keyhole, he cannot glance inside.  The group gathers outside the doors as Patches begins to inspect the area for traps.  Patches finds an old and poor tripwire trapping JmJm's door and moves on to the dining hall doors.  Determining the door itself to be safe, Patches inches it open and quickly spots a pressure plate on the other side of the door.  Working nimbly and quickly, she moves to disarm it, but the awkward angle proves too much and the opening door sets off the trap, hurling a hidden blade directly for Patches' face.  As fast as a striking snake, Tark's hand shoots out, catching the blade mere inches from Patches who gulps audibly and stares at the blade...Tark reassures Patches and pockets the new throwing knife.  The portal now safe, the group begins to make their way into the dining hall on this floor and are greeted with a macabre sight.  

  Dark stains cover the floor of this hall. Large oak tables, scarred and beaten, lay scattered like toys about the room, their wood crushed and splintered. Replacing them are furnishings made entirely of human bones. The walls and the twenty-foot-high vaulted ceiling are a sickly yellow color, not because of faded or timeworn plaster but because they are adorned with bones and skulls arranged in a morbidly decorative fashion, giving the room a cathedral-like quality. Four enormous mounds of bones occupy the corners of this ossuary, and garlands of skulls extend from these mounds to a chandelier of bones that hangs from the ceiling above a long table constructed of bones in the center of the room. Above these eastern doors is mounted the skull of a dragon.

 The group moves into the Hall of Bones (save JmJm who hangs back), Patches leading, checking for traps.   The group focuses on the massive dragon skull - the remains of Argynvost they had been asked to retrieve, and head over to investigate it.  Approaching the skull and checking for traps, Patches scales the wall and begins to investigate it.  The moment her hand brushes the skull, twin points of light flash in the eyesockets and the room is bathed in light.  The group feels suddenly refreshed and energized, more powerful than before.  Tark feels a thrumming energy in his staff and focuses on it, finally connecting with the Ki within and learns how to tap into the powerful weapon that was a gift from Bahamut.   Ireena and Boris enter the chamber and look visibly distressed by the human-bone decoration.  Cirrus walks over to Tark, contemplating his new power and lays a hand on the Halflings shoulder.  Cirrus radiates moonlight for a moment, his white robes veritably gleaming and Tark suddenly feels a weight lifted from him, the crows feet at the corners of his eyes recede and the silver streak in his magnificent beard becomes orange like the rest of his hair.  Tark lets out a whoop of joy and hugs Cirrus, who begins proselytizing about the Moon Goddess.

  Patches finishes her investigation, determining the skull to be untrapped, however it is still twelve feet above the ground.   The group is unsure how to get it off the wall until Buumi decides to bring the table of bone over to help.  At first the edge of the table shatters under Buumi's magically enhanced grip, so he tries again, more gently.  Buumi drags the table over, causing a cacophony of scraping, and then hops up onto it as Tark and Cirrus open a bag of holding to accept the Skull.  Buumi pulls the huge skull from the wall, staggering under it's weight and manages to tip the skull into the magical bag, filling the extra dimensional space.

  The group is startled by a voice from behind them, seated at one of the bone chairs along the table is Strahd... his face twisted into a feral scowl and with solid red eyes, prominent fangs and talons, the Vampire lord is a far cry from the elegant and handsome man they had met before.  He explains to them that he had planned on just killing them and taking what he wanted, but with prodding from Rahadin and the note he received from Patches, he would much rather test the group and see if they are lieutenant material for his army.  Tark calls out saying that they would never side with a monster!  Strahd dissolves into mist, reappearing behind Tark and striking him with his talons.  Around the room, skeletons animate from the piles of bone, pulling ethereal weapons from the air.  One shambles up behind Tark as he's fighting Strahd and smashes the poor Halfling atop his head with a mace, staggering him.  The group moves defensively, Buumi backing up to protect the casters and unarmed Boris.  With a yell, Ireena charges the nearest skeleton on Buumis flank, attacking with her two daggers.  Strahd hits Tark powerfully, but the monk and Patches retaliate, hitting Strahd just as hard.  As the ethereal tip of Stabby penetrates Strahd's breastplate, he falls backward into mist, disappearing.  The skeletons shamble forwards, surrounding Patches and Tark and Strahd re-appears atop the table, crouched on the edge just next to a frantic and panicked Boris.  Strahd lashes out, tearing Boris' head off and then stands atop the table, drinking the blood spurting from the poor mans neck.  Fey urgently communicates telepathically to Buumi.  As he's defending a retreating and injured Cirrus, Buumi hears in his thoughts that now is the time to use the Holy Symbol of Ravenkind.  He wholeheartedly agrees, pulling the platinum pendant out from his breastplate and calling to it's magic.  The pendant flashes with light and the sun flashes through the chamber.  Strahd lets out a scream of agony and anger, throwing his hands in front of him and summoning a shield of darkness.  Even with his magic Strahd is burning and teleports away to safety to re-think his strategy.  The skeletons in the room filled with sunlight all seem to tremble and grow weaker, their movements more unsteady.  Patches, looking away from the bright light takes down a handful of skeletons with Tark at her side as Buumi protects the doorway into the room.  As Buumi backs up, a skeleton shambles past, bee lining for Cirrus despite taking a hit from Buumi's hammer.   The skeleton shambles right up to the tiefling and embeds it's axe in Cirrus' chest.  Screaming, Cirrus hears JmJm scoot by invisibly, dancing across the moldering crates and lands behind the skeleton.  Jack Meyer Johnson Matthews becomes visible as he decapitates Cirrus' attacker and then turns and rushes past Buumi and kills the Skeleton facing a now bloody Ireena.  The remaining skeletons are mopped up quickly and the group takes stock of their injuries.   Ireena kneels next to the corpse of Boris and looks forlorn, lamenting the poor mans death.  Patches moves as if to comfort the woman, but instead shifts her out of the way and removes the holy water she gave the man earlier, from the corpse.  She hands the extra to Cirrus as Buumi casts a healing spell on the battered tiefling and others of the group bandage wounds while Fey checks the map.  

     Patches heads to the far door to the room and begins investigating it for traps.   Fey and Buumi both exit through the main double doors and find themselves in a long hall which stands in deadly silence. Heavy beams support a sagging, ten-foot-high ceiling. Fog clings to the floor, obscuring everything that lies less than three feet above it. A giant shadow lurches across the ceiling as a dark figure shuffles purposefully down the corridor toward them.  Through the ground fog comes a strange malformed little man; with tufts of fur, dog ears and a large duck foot.  The little man looks over the group, holding up a lantern and greets them with a smile.  He introduces himself as Cyrus Belview, a servant of the castle and offers to show the group to their rooms.  Intrigued, Fey begins to question the little man with JmJm and Cirrus while Ireena, Tark and Buumi head farther down the hall.  Patches meanwhile has determined the door in front of her is not trapped and cracks it open enough to see into the next room.   All she sees is an empty room at first, ancient weapons and armor embedded in the stone wall as if by a terrible angry force.  Then out of the dark she sees the ethereal form of a specter, and then another, and another.  She closes the door and decides to head back to the group, entering the long foggy hallway and seeing Buumi, Tark and Ireena down the far end and Cirrus, JmJm and Fey with Cyrus.  Patches heads over to the strange little butler, suspicion evident on her delicate Drow features.  Cyrus shows the group his stew in the kitchen, poking and smacking a restless Zombie that tried to climb from the pot back in with a large wooden spoon.  The group asks him if he's seen anything good or valuable.  Cyrus giggles and shows the group the Iron key he has and then leads them to his room.  Opening the old wooden door, the group is met by a mess of a room, bags and adventuring items of every kind scattered throughout the small chamber.  The group finds out that the mess belongs to all the long dead adventurers, whose bones decorate the previous room, that Cyrus arranged the bones and sometimes even stripped the meat... Patches raises her eyebrows in disgust, beginning to call on Stabby to put the mutant out of his misery but is told to stand down by the others.  They keep talking with Cyrus, determining that the crypts are one level down which is where they need to find Sergei's tomb and that above them on the second level of the castle is Strahd's library (spellbook for Morden).  Looking around the small room, they decide that it's not a terrible spot to try and catch a short rest and sit down for a moments rest.  

  Down the hall, Buumi, Tark and Ireena come across a large portcullis blocking their way.  Behind the bars, they can see large kegs of wine and decide to investigate.  Buumi grabs the Portcullis and begins to lift, straining with all his might the bars begin to move.  Tark shadowsteps through the bars and begins to lift from the other side.  They raise the portcullis until it clicks into place.  Ireena, Tark and Buumi move forwards, finding two casks that appear to have something inside.  The first they determine to be filled with fine wine and they take a little to quench their thirst, though Ireena hangs back, refusing to trust anything in castle Ravenloft.  They turn the second keg spigot, but nothing comes out.  Confused, they tap it again, determining that it is indeed full.  Impatiently, Tark smacks the oaken barrel with his staff, cracking the side and releasing a solid black tar.  The strange ooze lashes out at Tark and Buumi with black tendrils of goo.  With a yell, Tark and Buumi both fall back, the paladins armor getting smacked by a gelatinous tentacle.  Buumis prize armor sizzles and seems to melt under the Ooze's blow, leaving a section of weakened steel.  Buumi backs up as fast as he can, unwilling to risk his armor against the Black Pudding.  Tark connects to his ring of fire and raises a great wall, blocking off the ooze and trapping it in a corner with no way out.  Farther up the hall, Fey is looking around with Cyrus and is led into a side hall filled with machinery.  Fey watches in curiosity as Cyrus pulls a lever, causing the machinery to spring to life, lowering an elevator from far overhead.  Cyrus re-iterates that he wants to take the group to their rooms, which intrigues Fey.  Thinking about it, Fey decides not to split the group and turns to head back to the room but is stopped by the commotion down the hall with the Ooze.   Cyrus rushes in that direction yelling about his friend "Kevin".  Fey tries to calm the strange mutant but Cyrus is having none of it and begins climbing the stairs, calling for assistance.   Patches rushes out of the fog, quickly gaining stairs behind Cyrus and plunges her ethereal blade into the mans back.  Cyrus gasps and dissolves into dust as Stabby consumes his soul.  Up at the stair landing though, the flicker of purple torchlight and the sounds of a patrol can be heard.  Patches rushes back down the stairs, calling quietly to Cirrus to assume the form of Cyrus and distract the guards while her and Fey hide in the nearby "zombie stew" room.   Buumi and Tark at this point have extricated themselves from the Ooze, but the Ooze has also gotten away from the fire and is chasing them down the hallway hungrily.  Cirrus makes the stairs, disguised as the duck-footed Cyrus just as the guard -  a heavily armed and armored Vampire warrior flanked by two hounds made of pure shadow - comes into view.  The guard sees Cyrus, a creature he loathes, yelling about some stupid Ooze and makes a disgusted sound, turning to head back up the stairs.  The two hounds turn to follow but one turns at the last moment, sniffing the air.  Letting out a low growl, the hound sniffs and walks toward Cirrus slowly, it's growl deepening.  The guard calls out a moment later to the hound and it turns obediently to return to it's master.  Cirrus/Cyrus turns to glare at the Ooze named Kevin and unleashes an eldritch blast into it while running to take cover in the "stew" room.  Patches leaps from down from her ceiling hiding spot directly atop Kevin and stabby saps the last of it's life force, killing it.  In the stew room, two zombies have pulled themselves from the pot and attacked Fey.  The group rushes to his defense, Tark dropping from his own ceiling hiding spot and leaping into the room, rebounding off the wall in a flying kick that takes one of the zombies heads.  The group relaxes slightly, having avoided the guard and head back to the late Cyrus' room to hole up and take a short rest.  They close and bar the door and take their time in bandaging wounds and studying the castle map Tark drew and Fey memorized.  

  Thirty minutes after setting down to rest, the group comes alert as they hear the sounds of a patrol coming down the stairs.  They hear the sounds of several sets of feet, a much large patrol than earlier and then the deep booming voice of Peytr, the huge Vampire barbarian.  The patrol finds signs of the group, checking the main hall and then knocking on Cyrus' door to ask if the little butler had seen anything.  Tark concentrates, calling on his Ki to wrap the group in darkness and non-detection and the group attempt to hide themselves as best they can amongst the clutter of the room.   Cirrus responds to Peytr's questions with an blabbering stream of nonesense, crying that the group had killed Kevin.  Fed up with the blabbering little man-creature, the door of the room flies off it's hinges as Peytr kicks in the door.  The huge barbarian looms over the small (illusory) form of Cyrus and looks around the room and sees....nothing.  The group holds their collective breath, not daring to move a muscle as Cirrus faces down the Barbarian.  Cirrus' performance of the creepy little butler is flawless and after some tear filled sobs, he mentions that he saw Kevins murderers heading upstairs, to the towers.  Peytr whirls, storming off "after" the group, his entourage of Vampires and hounds following in his wake...

  The group lets out their relief in a huge sigh and look at one another in exasperation, settling down to try and get a few more minutes rest before heading back out into the castle to plumb it's depths…
