---
title: Barovia - Session 12
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 12
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gowain"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "ireena"
  - "kasimir"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "pickles"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "sergei"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "urwen"
  - "van-richten"
places:
  - "amber-temple"
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "ethereal-plane"
  - "feanons-tower"
  - "oerth"
  - "the-crossroads"
  - "vallaki"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "gwen"
  - "holy-symbol-of-ravenkind"
  - "piwafwi"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
---

Rictavio's re purposed wagon trundles along, it's large wheels rattling against the wet and muddy cobblestones of the old Svalich road as it heads west from Vallaki.  The group is resting, taking the time to recouperate.  Tark is riding atop the wagon, watching the world go by and meditating.  Patches is riding her new mount, mulling over it's name. Buumi is driving the wagon, seated next to the Dusk Elf - Kasimir. Aurora is loping alongside the wagon, lance strapped vertically to her saddle, sniffing and still getting to know the new Tiger in the group.  Gundren, who fades out of the mists, (with Gwen loping beside the wagon) starts taking inventory of his supplies.  Fey and Cirrus are both in the wagons interior, contacting Mordenkainen.  Mr. Pickles and Chekhov bring up the rear astride the pony: Dandelion.  

    After a couple hours of uneventful travel, the group makes it to the Ilyich crossroads and turn their wagon south, beginning the slow ascent of the foothills of Mt. Ghakis.  Tark and Patches, their keen senses on the lookout for danger, notice something amiss and call for the small caravan to halt.  A few heartbeats later, just as the group is beginning to ready their weapons, two familiar faces traipse from the trees.  Szoldar and Yevgeni, the Vallaki trappers greet the group with friendly nods, their packs laden with wolf pelts, and trek towards the group quickly from the treeline.  The group welcomes them (it takes Buumi a second to recall the drunken memory of their interaction) as they remember the drinking and smoking session they shared two nights ago.  After a friendly exchange, the group tells the trappers they are heading for The Amber Temple and would like to buy as many furs from them as possible.  Initially presenting the group a steep price, they manage to convince them to lower the price and even rent the group their own sets of cold weather gear.  With some timely words from an Ireena-disguised Cirrus and the mention they killed Gowain, they part ways and the group continues on down the southern road as the trappers head back to Vallaki, now many hundreds of gold richer.

   Gundren gets to work with his artificing tools, sewing and cutting furs and crafting four sets of cold weather gear.  With the new sets and the two rented from the Trappers, the group is only one set of cold weather gear short to keep everyone warm on the mountain.  After a few more hours, the sun is starting to set, and the gloom of Barovia begins to set in.  Fey emerges from the wagon and relays his conversation with Mordenkainen to the group.  Kasimir is pre-occupied, studying his spellbook and does not listen in on the groups conversation, Fey tries to catch some glances of the spells inside to see if it's worth trying to copy.  Just as the group is about to leave the foothills and forested slopes of the lower mountain, Patches ears hear a far distant ruckus.  Getting closer, the rest of the group also hears it - snarling wolves and harsh, ragged breathing.  Rushing to a nearby steep slope, Patches looks down to see an old man about 100ft down the steep slope.  The man looks to be in bad shape and is barely staying above two snarling wolves at the bottom of the incline.  Tark rushes up and immediately becomes anxious, tying off a climbing rope for Patches to descend, but otherwise remaining at the top of the slope as the rest of the group arrives and looks down.  Patches makes it to the old man and quickly realizes he's dying.  The man has his throat torn, is missing a leg from mid-calf down and has a crossbow bolt deep in his side.  Old and new blood stains his beard and his clothes deeply, save for a magnificent fur cloak he bundled behind his head.  He looks up at Patches and mumbles some words, grimacing in pain.  She asks the old man if he wants to die, he nods, but holds a hand up to halt her as she quickly reaches for her crossbow to shoot him.  He mutters "Urwen...son..give him..." and pulls a family signet ring from a bloody hand and hands it to Patches.  "Heirloom, of...our people...interred...with Sergei..."  He slumps back, his strength leaving him and Patches pulls the trigger.  Calling up to the group, she lets them know the man is dead, Gundren asks if he has anything good on him.  Other than the signet ring, Patches nabs the heavy fur cloak and secures her rope around the corpse.  As she looks up from the corpse, Patches notes many ravens beginning to arrive, perching in trees...looking at her.   Hoisting the corpse up, with Patches climbing up rapidly, she relays the mans wishes and the information she got from him. Buumi and Tark both freak out, asking if Patches just murdered the guy! .  Skeptical at first, the others quickly believe the man wished to die after inspecting the wounds.  

       The group decides that they can't just leave the corpse out in the wilderness and decide to have Mr. Pickles and Chekhov head back to Vallaki with the body to deliver it to Urwen.  Kasimir thinks it good the group sends off the weakest back to safety and begins to warn the group about the dangerous weather of the mountain.  

       The wagon continues to trundle upwards, pulled by the Ghostly horse Cirrus summoned, but after several hours, even the tireless magical mount is having trouble with the snow.  The wickedly cold wind blowing down off the mountain saps the warmth from their bone.  Even through the cold weather gear, it hits the group.  The strong wind blows Kasimirs hood down for a second before he quickly pulls it up, embarrassed but not before the group notes that he has no ears.  Where his ears would be, only scars and holes exist.  The group prods Kasimir into talking about it, learning that Rahadin; Strahd's Chamberlain, came to the Dusk Elves after the death of Kasimirs sister.  They commiserated and mourned the death of Patrina, but that night, as the Dusk elves slept, Rahadin murdered every female Dusk elf of the tribe and mutilated Kasimir.    Surprised at this information, the group is troubled by this news as their only interaction with Rahadin before this was that he helped and healed them.

   The snow now several inches deep, the wagon rolls along the road - clearly visible still due to magically warmed marker stones despite the heavy snowfall.  The wagon comes around the side of the mountain and the group is met with a snow and ice coated Gatehouse, it's walls extending up and down the mountainside, blocking their progress.  A small white tower of stone sits on the other side of the gate, in solitude.  In the archway of the gate, a green wall of fire crackles and has melted back the snow and atop the walls are two huge statues of bird-like demons.  The wagon rolls to a stop and the group disembarks, approaching the gatehouse, snow crunching underfoot.  As they look around, the group realizes the utter stillness of the place and that other than the biting wind, nothing has moved here in months.  Patches grapples up on top of the wall to inspect the statues which look familiar to her.  Cirrus and Fey both begin investigating the flaming wall below, with Fey pulling out his spellbook and beginning to identify the magic in front of him.  It comes to Patches as she looks closely, these statues are of Demonic Vrocks.  Tark shadowsteps up next to the other statue and begins inspecting it.  Just as Patches begins to lose her patience and steps to jump off the wall on the other side, Fey calls out to stop!  Tark manages to snatch her new cold weather cape and pull Patches back.  Fey goes on to explain that the gate is warded, and after climbing up to inspect the statues to confirm, relays the Statues are petrified Vrocks that would attack if they bypassed the gate.  The group heads back to the Green fire, and after a few minutes, Fey dispels the magic with an effort of will and the group heads through on foot, still wary.  They head to the ice encrusted tower, Fey, Cirrus and Tark going in through the front door while Patches scales the tower.  Atop the tower, Patches finds nothing but snow and old bones, wary of a trap, she waits and watches.  The group below find nothing of interest and head up a floor.  Cirrus spots something under the snow and ice and clears off the floor, finding a teleportation circle.  Fey quickly copies down the coordinates and rune.  Patches meanwhile is straining on the roof to open the frozen trapdoor, and gives up after a few seconds of vain attempts, briefling startling Tark a floor below.

  Re-convening at the Wagon, the group continues on, approaching an old stone bridge a few hundred feet past the guard tower.  Despite being rather run-down, Gundren insists it's stable and the group begin to cross, the wind and snow driving against them.  Through the haze, they notice a dark figure in the center of the bridge, atop a black steed.  Worried for a moment, it passes quickly as Cirrus informs them that it's just an illusion and the group brushes past it, crossing the gorge and continuing up the increasingly treacherous mountain pass.  After another hour of ascent, the snow is now too deep for the wagon and the group decides to continue on foot.  They leave the war-tigers behind, in the shelter of the wagon, their thick fur coats perfectly adapted to the cold.  They traipse on through the deep snow and driving wind.  Patches, having a hard time with the cold, begins to feel the exhaustion of the biting cold.  Cirrus warms everyone's furs with magic, while Tark summons a small globe of fire from his ring, staving off the worst of the cold.  The winds stop for a second and then changes direction, blowing directly into the faces of the group from above, carrying with it a distinct smell.  The smell is familiar to Gundren, having spent time as a Dwarfling in his ancestral home of Icewind Dale - Yetis...  Tark calls upon the shadows and wreathes an aura of stealth around the group and they continue onwards.  After a few moments, they note several shaggy white patches of snow - Yetis waiting in ambush.  Not wanting to push their luck, the group prestidigitates a disturbance further down the mountains, and the Yetis all perk up and crawl away in it's direction, stalking prey (or so they think). 

    After another few dozen feet of ascent, the group feels a rumble beneath their feet.  Looking around, Tark notes a snow chute and possible avalanche and warns the group.  Once again though, they feel a rumbling under their feet.  The snow explodes around them and the group is thrown backward, a gargantuan armored worm rising from the snow, a hundred talon-ed insectoid legs fidgeting.  It's glittering eyes sweep around as it scents the air, trying desperately to find what it sensed.  The group freezes in terror, unsure of how to react, until Cirrus summons a Spectral Mount and sends it careening down the mountain.  With an ear deafening screech, the massive beast turns and tears down the mountain after the steed.  The group turns and runs as fast as they can away from the monster and once clear of the snow chute have Gundren shoot a shell and start an avalanche, hopefully further occupying the massive Polar Worm.

   Continuing the ascent, following Kasimir through the deep snow, the group finally makes it to the facade of The Amber Temple. The front of the structure is fifty feet high and has six alcoves containing twenty-foot-tall statues. Each statue is carved from a single block of amber and depicts a faceless, hooded figure, its hands pressed together in a gesture of prayer. Between the two innermost statues is a twenty-foot-tall archway with a staircase leading down .  As the group begins to approach through the swirling snow, they catch the sight of movement atop the facade.  Freezing in their tracks, the group peers through the wind and snow, catching sight of a titanic bird.  Black feathered and with a hundred foot wingspan, the massive eagle - a Roc - shuffles atop it's perch, wind ruffling it's huge feathers.  The group proceeds forwards with caution, Tark renewing his stealth magic for the group and they manage to make it to the Temple Facade without being harried.  Once at the facade, they see a fissure in the rock and decide to investigate that rather than go in through the front door.  Approaching the fissure, the group crowds into the opening to shield themselves from the cold.  Patches is beginning to shiver uncontrollably and is having the hardest time with the cold.  Buumi remains at the back of the group, blocking as much wind as possible with his bulk while Patches slips into the fissure to investigate the light and sounds emanating from within the temple.

    Twenty feet in, Patches stops and hunkers down, seeing a campfire surrounded by barbarians and a huge white wolf.  The Barbarians look very much like the others of this land - brutal and savage, covered in grisly trophies, but these ones are wearing heavy furs to protect from the still lethal cold.  Relaying her findings back to the group, Fey then enters the crevasse far enough to line up a target and unleashes a scintillating wave of color and light into the room, stunning and incapacitating all within.  The group hurries through the crack in the outer wall and into the room, removing weapons from the barbarians and quickly tying and restraining all potential enemies.  Buumi going through after Tark and using his incredible strength to tighten all the knots.  The group then takes a minute to quietly take stock of their options while Patches warms herself up by the fire, finally shaking off the chill.  Fey begins searching the room for valuables and finds a hidden door, finding the release catch, Fey opens a room that has been sealed for centuries.  The group finds an ancient scroll rack, covered in old and decaying scrolls, almost all disintegrating to the touch.  Gundren moves in to help search and after a few minutes, discover three still serviceable scrolls; Modify Memory, Catapult and Greater restoration.  Patches meanwhile, slips out of one of the doors - great stone slabs with amber inlay and heads out into the main hall of the Temple.  A twenty-foot-wide balcony of black marble with a shattered railing overlooks a vast temple. Black marble staircases at each end of the balcony descend thirty feet to the temple floor. The vaulted ceiling is thirty feet above the balcony. The walls and ceiling are covered in an amber glaze, lending the gloom a golden sheen. A set of amber doors stands open to the east.

    Patches lets her eyes change to her superior darkvision, now seeing everything in the infra-red spectrum and she looks around the room. Four black marble columns support the vaulted ceiling of the temple, at the north end of which stands a forty-foot-tall statue of a cowled figure in flowing robes. The statue’s stony hands are outstretched as if in the midst of casting a spell. Its face is a void of utter blackness. The ominous statue stands between two black marble balconies, one of which has partially collapsed and fallen on the temple’s black marble floor, in front of an open doorway. The walls of the temple are sheathed in amber, and the doors leading from it are made of amber as well. Arched hallways coated with amber lead away from the temple to the west and east. Flanking these exits are alcoves that hold white marble statues of robed human wizards with pointed hats and golden staffs. One of them has toppled over and lies shattered on the floor.   Noting the room, Patches sees a flicker of light from a set of arrow slits overlooking the main floor, but decides to investigate the set of open amber doors ahead.  Checking rooms along the way, Patches sees a long empty barracks with a couple of ethereal specters flitting around it aimlessly.  A few feet pas this, Patches notes snow blown in from the outside and peeks around the corner to see the stairs from the outside leading down into hallway which in turn leads to her and the main chamber. She notes several frozen traps at the entrance and four more arrow slits overlooking this hall.  Making it to the end of the upper landing and the open amber doors, Patches slows down her forward progress and focuses her keen senses on looking for traps at the threshold of the door.  After a minute, she notices a pressure plate at the threshold and manages to wedge it open with a small piece of copper from her thieves tools, she then marks it with some colored dust.  Turning her attention past the doorway, she notes the room is featureless except for a rough-edged, 10-foot-diameter circular hole in the floor to the east and empty torch sconces along the walls. Double doors of amber stand open to the north. A single closed door lies just south of the western set of double doors. 

  Back in the room with the now slumbering barbarians, Tark has veeeeery carefully cracked the other set of doors leading from the room.  Peeking through the tiny sliver, he notes three flaming skulls floating behind arrow slits - the same slits Patches had noted the flickering light from.  Recognizing the enemies as undead Flameskulls, Fey sends forth a subtle spell, distracting the skulls as the party bursts through the doors in a devastating surprise assault.  The three undead constructs are quickly destroyed, falling shattered to the ground within seconds.  The battle, was short and quiet and the group then finds themselves in the corridor with the arrow slits, three doors along one wall and another set of ornate amber doors closed at the far end.  The group begins investigating each door along the corridor one by one, finding an ancient potion laboratory filled with long spoiled potions but finding a few still intact.  The group finds a hallway and set of stairs down to the lower level behind the second door, and a very interesting room behind the third door.  The third door room contains a perfect model of castle Ravenloft and ghost of the buildings architect.  The ghost does not say much, other than confirming that the model is indeed accurate.  The group then spends the next few minutes making maps of the castle and committing it to memory as best they can.  Before leaving the architects room, they search the single old wooden chest in there, finding a magical tome of Understanding.  Recognizing the power of such a tome, the group deliberates how best to use it, eventually deciding that Tark, with his monk wisdom would put it to best use.  The group (sans Patches) heads back to the hallway and heads to the final unopened door at the far end.

  Patches, hearing the slight sounds of battle from her far off position decides to head back to the group, dropping down to the main floor in an acrobatic flourish, then sneaking across, her Drow Piwafwi rendering her all but invisible.  Patches makes it across the floor without incident, until a voice pops into her head "OH! OH! Hello there!" it proclaims.  Patches freezes in place, unsure what to make of this and responds mentally.  After a quick discussion, Patches discovers that someone named "stick" is in a secret compartment of the statue in the main chamber, and he's guarded by a powerful fiend known as an Arcanaloth. 

  The group opens doors in front of them and are greeted by a magnificent feast on an ancient, yet sturdy table.  Around the table are twelve chairs, seven of which appear to be occupied by the ghosts of long dead mages.  Wary at first, the group quickly determines the ghosts are no threat and dig into the summoned feast, eating their fill.  A few minutes later after much inspection, the group finds a magical silver Ewer at the center of the table that is responsible for summoning the feast and Gundren grabs it greedily, causing the calm ghosts to launch themselves at the group with murderous intent, their once calm features twisting horribly int masks of rage.  The ghosts attacks are clumsy, only catching a few of the group off guard, but the psychic assault of their horrifying visage takes it's toll on Fey and Tark, aging them prematurely.  Fey's subtle wrinkles deepen slightly as he ages twenty years in a heartbeat while Tark gets a streak of grey in his magnificent beard and deep laugh lines around his eyes as he ages forty years.  The group defends themselves, battling the ghosts until Gundren puts the Ewer back on the table and the ghosts calm.  Buumi, holding the holy Symbol of Ravenkind summons forth bright sunlight, bathing the room in a warm and calming glow.  The ghosts all sag under the warmth, and with tired smiles on their faces, melt away under the holy light.  The light slowly fades from the medallion and Buumi looks around, happy to put souls to rest.  Gundren however, greedily grabs up the magical Ewer and tosses it to Fey who deposits it into his bag of Holding.

   Patches climbs up to the ruined balcony and looks through the doors there, seeing the escapades of the group on the other side and deciding to stay out of it instead continues to converse with Stick.  After a few moments, she decides to follow Sticks instructions and jumps back down to the main floor and heads to the rear of the statue, easily finding the door inside the statue and ascends the steps.  Making it up to the head of the statue silently, Patches is greeted by a strange sight.  A large anthropomorphic fox man is seated on a stool, his canine legs crossed, bespectacled snout peering into a spellbook.  The Arcanaloth - Nefron (Stick tells her) is guarding the temple, and stole Stick from a battlefield a few months back and has been trying to attune itself to Stick.  Looking around, Patches finally sees Stick - a magnificent staff of dark hardwoord, with gold inlaid filigree and capped with a huge and perfect ruby, a gold endcap on the other end of the staff.  Patches relays her findings to the group via the Rockie talkies and silently nabs the staff, sneaking back to the group with her treasure.  

  The group inspects Stick, Fey practically salivates over the staff, recognizing it as a staff of the Archmagi.  Talking with Stick, they discover that he is the staff of Mordenkainen and are asked to return him to the Archmage of Oerth which they readily agree to.  Fey slings Stick over one shoulder and the group decides to take the staircase down that they found earlier between the alchemy lab and architect room.  Cirrus, impatiently, had walked off ahead of the group, descending the stairs first and on the bottom step he hears a click and shift of a stone underfoot and a steel spike shoots from the wall, impaling him through his side against the stone of the hallway wall.  Gasping in pain, and blood oozing from the wound, Cirrus looks down at the spear impaling him, clutching the shaft with bloody, trembling hands.  Tark - hearing the commotion, rushes down the stairs to Cirrus and is shocked by the bloody scene.   Cirrus tells tark that WHEN he drops unconscious there is a strong potion in his bag and that Tark should feed it to him.  Tark attempts to sever the spear and strikes it, bending it badly but not breaking it, the jolt rendering Cirrus unconscious.  Gundren bustles down the stairway, pushing Tark out of the way and pulling out his artificing tool kit, specifically a hack saw and cuts through the spear trap, freeing Cirrus from the wall.  They pull the spear from Cirrus's belly, blood gushing forth in a wave, and then feed Cirrus the healing potion from his bag.  The whole scabs and puckers stymieing the blood flow and Cirrus' eyes flutter open a moment later.  Buumi clatters down the stairs a second later, eyes wide at all the blood and motions towards a pale and shaking Cirrus, asking if he needs more healing and noting the bloody piece of spear.  They take a moment to look at the hall they had descended into.  Glistening amber coats the walls and ceiling of the enormous hall like sculpted honey, and dust covers the black marble floor. The vaulted ceiling is twenty-five feet high. Set into the walls at a height of five feet are amber ledges lined with life-sized alabaster statues of cats, frogs, hawks, owls, rats, ravens, snakes, toads, and weasels. Many of the statues have fallen off their perches and lie shattered on the floor. An amber door in the north wall stands open. Four other amber doors to the west and south stand closed...
