---
title: Barovia - Session 18
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 18
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "argynvost"
  - "chani"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "ezmerelda"
  - "goblin-king"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "ireena"
  - "jack-mayer-johnson-mathews"
  - "lathander"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "pickles"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "sergei"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "urwen"
  - "van-richten"
places:
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "feanons-tower"
  - "vallaki"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "gwen"
  - "holy-symbol-of-ravenkind"
  - "piwafwi"
  - "the-last-word"
  - "the-reaver"
  - "thundercannon"
  - "tome-of-strahd"
---

The Stone Golems step from their plinths and turn to the group, their heavy footfalls shaking the stone hall.   Patches hurls a smoke bomb far down the corridor, just as she sees Peytr and his entourage ascend the steps and make the hallway.  The smoke bomb explodes in a swirl of opaque fog, blocking sight.  Cirrus, thinking fast, cracks his new staff against the stone floor and the diamond at it's top casts a brilliant blue glow.  A blue line of energy separates the group from the Golems and Peytr.   The Wall of Force takes effect and the glow fades, becoming completely invisible.  The rest of the group begins piling into the tower and making their ascent, Ireena protectively in the center of the group. With Patches leading, she finds trap after trap, marking them as she goes, unable to stop and disarm them.    The group begins their ascent as fast as they can,  Buumi and Gundren take up the rear as Gwen leaps up the stair well.  High above, the sullen glow of the crystal heart grows brighter and a dull thump of a heartbeat shakes the tower to it's very foundations.  On the narrow staircase, Buumi and Gwen lose their footing and begin to fall.  Seeing her companions in need, Patches shoots a web down onto Buumi from the floor above, stopping his fall before it starts.  Fey sees Gwen begin to tumble and condenses a wall of ice underneath her, stopping her fall, but not her momentum.  She slides across the slick ice, her claws raking long lines in the ice, until Tark grabs her mechanical tail and hauls, bringing her back to safety.

  Back in the hall, Peytr strides from the smoke, up to the wall of force the two Golems are pounding against (with no effect).  He closes his eyes and turns to mist, seeping into the cracks in the floor and up on the other side of the wall of force.  The two Vampire champions with him follow suit, all three vampires now on the other side of the barrier.  With an eruption of inky blackness, two huge shadow hounds appear in the door to the tower and begin their ascent.  The group turns to perform a fighting retreat as they ascend the tower. Cirrus calls upon his staff again, crackling with lightning and hurls a blast through the door (and hounds) and into the Vampire champions.  With nowhere to go, the lightning bolt rebounds off of the wall of force, devastating the hallway as one of the shadow hounds explodes.  Fey follows up the magical blast by reaching into the minds of the three vampires to try and hold them in place.  Both Champions, reeling from the lightning are frozen in place, but Peytr shakes off the hit and charges into the tower.  Gundren blasts the last hound with his thundercannon, killing it and then spraying grease on the steps.  Peytr sees the grease and leaps to the wall, running up it as easily as if it were the ground, but Cirrus reacts and quickly shapes the stone into a slide, pitching the Vampire off the towers' wall and into freefall in it's center.   Peytr twists in the air, throwing his Obsidian headed ax at the party clumped above him and then transforms into a fluttering bat, arresting his fall.  The ax pinweels into Fey, Steven and JmJm, bludgeoning and cutting each of them.

  Above, Patches has made good speed, marking many traps but Skeleton warriors begin to shoot down at her from many levels above, grazing her and Ireena with arrows.  In response, Tark shadowsteps up to each group, attacking them and pitching them off of the stairs to their destruction as Cirrus shapes the stone beneath others feet, causing them to tumble.  Shadowstepping from group to group, Tark quickly outdistances the rest of the party, making his way up to the massive crystal heart, just as it beats again...

  Far below, the tower shakes and rumbles and Gundren loses his footing, forcing Patches to quickly web him and stop his fall.  Cirrus is thrown to his stomach and Fey is thrown heavily into the wall, but neither begin to fall.  JmJm, bruised from the ax throw (which is still embedded in the wall near them) and concerned for Stevens safety, grabs his Goblin servant and begins helping the little fellow up the stairs with his harp, making excellent speed blowing past the distracted Patches who calls after JmJm to watch out for traps.

  Peytr resumes his hulking humanoid form and charges up the stairs to engage Buumi, landing powerful unarmed blows against the Paladins shield and armor.  With a wrenching sound, the Obsidian ax pinwheels towards Peytr's outstretched hand, clubbing Buumi and Gundren in it's path. Engaged in close combat, Buumi is unable to retreat and calls upon the power of helm, his hammer glowing and strikes at Peytr but the Dark Knight deflects the powerful blows with his enchanted ax, forcing a stalemate.  

  High above, Tark sees a door out to a bridge and tower-top but freezes in place as he sees two Vampire guards through the storm raging outside.  JmJm and Steven race up the tower, hopping over the last trap marked by Patches and making it up to the level with the crystal heart.  For a moment, JmJm contemplates smashing the great thing, but in a flash of insight, realizes such a thing would only summon more enemies to them.  Patches runs to catch up, but is still a good ways down from JmJm and she calls out, almost certain that the landing out to the rooftop is trapped.  The crystal heart pulses again and shakes the tower, causing Peytr and Buumi to both lose their footing and begin to fall.  Gundren manages to grab the back of Buumi's armor and drags him to safety as Peytr twists into the form of a bat, saving himself.  Far above, Tark sees the two guards turn to look out over the railing and makes his move, Shadostepping behind them and with his staff, attempts to push both over the railing.  The first guard falls, his cry being lost in the rumbling thunder and whipping rain, but the second guard braces himself against the railing and turns, swinging his sword for Tark.  Tark deflects the blow and then grapples the Vampire and pitches off the roof with him, falling.   JmJm and Steven see Tark fall and rush out the landing and into the storm, but as they cross the tower landing, JmJm feels a pressure plate give way under foot and a huge pendulum blade swings down at Steven and he.  Steven takes the full force of the blow, being cut cleanly in half and is killed instantly and JmJm takes a wicked gash across the face from the trap.  JmJm stumbles backwards in the rain, covered in blood and seeing his beloved Steven, in two pieces before him.  JmJm throws his head back and screams denial to the heavens and in that moment, loses himself to the power of The Goblin King, transforming into the Fey creature.  Tark Shadowsteps out of his fall, back to the tower railing, just as Patches darts past the transformed JmJm to help haul the Monk to safety.  Patches turns to regard JmJm and the now dead Steven, remarking that "I guess you found the trap...".

  Below, Buumi sees their chance to escape, just as another patrol of vampires start on the staircase far below and calls upon Helm to help him turn the undead.  Peytr is pummeled with several spells from above, cast by Fey and Cirrus and retakes humanoid form on the stairwell.  Buumi's holy symbol glowing with power, Peytr stumbles backwards, disengaging from combat and allowing the group to quickly ascend and re-unite atop the rain swept bridge connecting to the nearby tower.   The crystal heart dims and seems to stop and the group stands out in the raging storm, surrounding the dead form of Steven.

  Buumi picks up the dead goblin and with sadness, remarks that the wounds are too severe for Steven to be returned to life.  JmJm picks up the top half of his friend and then commands his harp to magically shrink to a small brooch, surprising all gathered as he had always forced Steven to carry the large thing.  Cirrus reminds the group tersely that they are not out of the woods and that they still need to get to safety.  At that moment, a figure ascends the stairs on the tower across the bridge from the group, and through the pelting rain, they see Rahadin who remarks that Strahd bid him confront the group in his place. Calmly, Rahadin tells the group that they are at the end of the road, that if they hand over Ireena, The Holy Symbol of Ravenkind and The Artifact (Last Word), the group will be turned and enjoy positions of power as Vampire lieutenants.  The other option, Rahadin remarks, is to die.  Cirrus spins and begins touching each of his comrades, enacting his flight spells.  Seeing this, Rahadin locks eyes with Patches, and in her mind, she hears his voice say "now".  Assuming that to have been the trigger for the Geas to kill Ireena, Patches merely smirks back at Rahadin as his face twists in confusion and then rage.  Rahadin screams out "LENANSHIDHE!" and Patches feels a falling sensation as her consciousness recedes.  The group is horrified as Patches eyes go pitch black and her hair Blood red, waving in the air as though underwater and unaffected by the storm.  Patches lets out an eerie wail and charges Ireena, Stabby forming in her hand.   The group dog-piles onto her and Tark restrains her using his martial arts and then enacts the magic of his staff and flies off the tower into the storm with Patches.  Panicking, JmJm (in Goblin form) turns Ireena invisible to protect her and still enraged by the death of Steven, turns to face the now charging Rahadin.  Fey steps in front and locks stares with JmJm, paralyzing him, then scooping him up in his arms and flying off into the storm as well.  The group retreats off the tower bridge, into the storm, the last people on the bridge being Buumi, Cirrus and an invisible Ireena.  Buumi fumbles for Ireena for a split second and looking around, sees Rahadin rushing towards them, his bejewled scimitar in hand and Peytr coming out of the tower behind them.  Buumi takes off into the air, grasping an invisible Ireena in one hand and holds forth the Holy Symbol of Ravenkind in the other, summoning sunlight.  Cirrus leaps off the bridge, into the stormy night, transforming into the form of a massive raven.  Both Rahadin and Peytr recoil from the sunlight emanating from Buumi, but as the Paladin turns to fly to safety, Peytr hurls his ax.  The ax spins in, smashing into the Holy Symbol and with a blinding detonation, destroys it... As the blinding detonation clears, Ireena is visible and falling while Buumi drifts unconscious through the air, the flight spell keeping him aloft.  Cirrus swoops back in his Raven form, grabbing Buumi before diving and snatching Ireena from the air.  Tumbling through the air, thrown by the explosion, Buumi's crumpled shield with the fragment of The Last Word careens into the darkness.  Seeing this, Fey adjusts his flight to intercept, freeing JmJm from paralysis so he can grab the shield, they scoop it from the air moments before it enters a dimension door cast by Strahd to snatch the Artifact.  In Tark's arms  Patches goes limp as the possession ends and Gundren and Gwen fade into the mists.

   The group flies with all haste from the castle as arrows and ballista bolts are fired in their direction, though the storm robs them of any accuracy.  Through the intense rain, as the lightning flashes overhead, the group sees their wagon (Rictavios') making it's way up the mountain path towards Castle Ravenloft, being driven by Ezmerelda, Mr. Pickles and Chekhov.  With them are the Wartiger mounts; Aurora being ridden by a very bedraggled looking Urwen.  The group beelines it to the wagon which, as Ezmerelda notices the group flying towards her, turns it around and begins down the mountainside with all haste as behind, Castle Ravenloft erupts with motion and darkness.  Hunting horns blow from the castle and the very storm itself seems to swirl down to touch the highest tower.  From the darkness flows a horde of enemies, Vampires atop spectral steeds, shadow hounds and millions of bats all flying through the air in pursuit of their prey.  

  The group makes the wagon as it turns to begin its descent.   Buumi is placed in the back and Ireena begins to tend his wounds - his left arm is missing from the elbow down and he is peppered with shrapnel but stubbornly holding on to life.  Patches, the influence of Stabby now subsided, quickly mounts Kitty, her War Tiger as Tark drops her off.  Tark begins loping alongside the wagon in great leaps and bounds. Cirrus alights on the back of the wagon in Raven-form,  Urwen looking on in awe.  Fey clambers in the back of the wagon and begins drawing up a Teleportation circle, unsure of the destination, but knowing that any place is better than the mountainside by Castle Ravenloft.  JmJm holds on to the top of the Wagon as it bounces down the road and turns back to look at the pursuit, his Goblin eyes going wide at the veritable army descending upon them.

  The wagon careens down the mountainside, with an army of Vampires in close pursuit.   Quickly, the group discusses their options and decide not to drag an entire army down upon Vallaki, instead heading to the Tser falls, but using misdirection and illusion to confuse the pursuit.  The Bones of Argynvost flash a rune into Fey's mind and he begins adjusting his Teleportation circle to take them back to the ruined Manor of the Dragon. Chekhov and Mr. Pickles begin shooting crossbow bolts at the horde behind them as a massive illusion of a wall of water rises up behind them, slowing the pursuit.  At each fork in the road, the Cirrus creates an illusion of the wagon splitting from them to further confound the pursuit.  Even with all these distractions, so many enemies are following that Tark and Patches must still fight to keep the Vampires and hounds off of them.  With a masterful shot from her pistol, Patches takes down a pursuing hound just as Tark takes the horse out from underneath one of the Vampires and it tumbles down the mountainside.  One of the vampire riders manages to gallop overhead and get in front of the wagon, stabbing at Ezmerelda and the horse with his lance but is quickly taken care of by Tark and Patches.  Cirrus summons swarms of Ravens to further conceal their flight and Urwen leaps from Aurora, transforming into a Raven and then back to human form to shoot his bow at the pursuit, shifting back to a Raven before hitting the ground.  

  Calling out from inside the wagon, Fey announces that the spell is complete and they need to flee.  Killing the last of the immediate pursuers, but with many others close behind, the group climbs into the back of the wagon and through the open portal.  As the portal begins to rip the wagon apart, the mounts bound into the wagon and through the portal, Ezmerelda leaving the driving seat and fleeing.  The last thing she sees is a huge bat like creature swoop down to the wagon, flipping and twisting over itself and revealing it to be Peytr.  The last of the group dives through the Teleportation circle and Fey quickly closes it behind them, just as the wagon loses control and careens off the mountainside...

  Now out front of Argynvostholt, the group looks around taking stock.  Off in the far distance, they can see the horde of flying enemies begin banking and heading towards them.  Realizing they have mere minutes until they are overrun, they hoist the unconscious Buumi and charge into the Manor, Fey leading in the guise of Argynvost and Fey with his bag open so the Revenants can feel the presence of the bones of their master.  The group runs through the chapel, the Revenants rising to meet them, but Cirrus commands them to protect the bones of their master (and by proxy, the group).  Feeling the presence of their lord, the whole Manor erupts with movement as every Revenant and Ghost prepares itself to meet the incoming horde of darkness.  The group rushes out of the Chapel and to the mausoleum, being led by the whispers of Argynvost.  They remove the Dragon skull from the bag of holding and place it in the Mausoleum and it begins to glow with a pale, warm light that fills the group with hope.  The skull disappears in a flash, and a column of glorious holy light fills the space, resolving itself into the vague shape of a doorway.  Patches shields her eyes and delicate Piwafwi from the light as Fey contacts Mordenkainen with the Sending Stones and asks he join them right away.  Mordenkainen teleports to Argynvostholt using the rune Fey gives him and rushes through the manor to join the group in the Mausoleum, just as the storm begins to intensify outside.  With the army of darkness only moments away, the group rushes through the portal of light and it closes behind them.

Blinking as their eyes adjust from bright light to a dimly lit chamber, the group takes in the space.  They find themselves in a large chamber, beautifully furnished with multiple areas dedicated to different functions, not unlike Mordenkainen's sanctum.  Rich mahogany columns hold a vaulted marble ceiling up and many of the walls are lined with bookshelves.  Looking around, they see spells of non-detection inscribed on every wall - they are in Argynvosts private sanctum and there does not appear to be any way in or out save for a teleportation circle.  Finding a beautiful plush bed, Ireena deposits Buumi into it while her and Tark tend to his wounds.  Fey walks over to Mordenkainen and begins conversing with him, handing him Sergei's Journal.  Patches and Cirrus are drawn towards a massive pile of treasure, taking up a good third of the room and begin rifling through it.  JmJm slumps in exhaustion and shimmers, transforming back into his Half-elf self and sets the remains of Steven down before him, tears welling up in his eyes.  Looking through the treasure, the group finds several pieces of art, many thousands of coins, and numerous minor magical items.  Patches is drawn to a set of armor, it's black leather strips interweaving to create a herringbone pattern and each major muscle group outlined in Mithril strips, runes and engravings running their length.  Mordenkainen calls the attention of the group as he reads the last entry from the Tome of Strahd:

*I...am betrayed... My heart breaks to even write this.  Tatyana... is dead.  She fell from the highest tower mere hours ago.  Rahadin says that he saw her sprinting the tower steps, followed by an Irate Sergei...I cannot believe...yet, Tatyanas fall was seen by many...I...cannot...Sergei?*

Mordenkainen then switches to the journal of Sergei and reads the last two entries:

*My brother returns home tomorrow.  I rejoice, but I also quake in terror.  How can I tell him, how can I explain our love...our child?  She is sure, she says that she is indeed pregnant...I must tell him, I must beg **Strahd** to take it as his own, and I will exile myself from this land.  I will live as Lathander intended, untethered from all earthly wants. It...must be done.*

*...*

*I still have not mustered the courage to tell him.  I met Tatyana this morning.  We fought, as is normal, but by the end we were both in accordance.  We must reveal our treachery, beg his forgiveness and then I will leave fo............................Rahadin came to me, he....he says **Strahd** killed her...he found out, and in a rage...the rage, that he would so callously end two lives....I...CANNOT BEAR THIS!  I WILL AVENGE MYSELF UPON HIM! THE POWER OF LATHANDER IS WITH ME!*

*  *

​Mordenkainen sets the books down and looks at the group, meeting their gazes as they realize the implication of the conflicting accounts...
