---
title: Barovia - Session 9
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 9
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "argynvost"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "ezmerelda"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gowain"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "ront"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "urwen"
  - "van-richten"
places:
  - "amber-temple"
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "keep-of-thunder-bluff"
  - "snorbuls-hole"
  - "vallaki"
things:
  - "gwen"
factions:
  - "keepers-of-the-feather"
  - "vistani"
---

The group looks up at the ancient dragon statue.  Buumi stands there, wondering at the Sun-symbol amulet as Tark fades into the mist, quickly forgotten in this mind bending place.  Gundren phases into existence, heaving the non functional Gwen onto the back of a mount before meeting up with the group at the statue, and being suitably impressed by it.  Fey and Gundren investigate the statue while the rest of the group begins looking over the massive derelict Manor house.  Four stories tall, each floor being twenty feet high, the fortified manor is enormous, but it's east side has sustained heavy damage, with large portions collapsed.  The rain continues it's constant, cold drizzle and the sound of flowing water through ancient gutters is constant. The group, wary of traps, begins searching for pressure plate or triggers, but find none.  Patches climbs up to the second story quickly with her climbing kit and looks in through an arrow slit, seeing the large main hall, ancient decrepit furnishings and decoration throughout.   Down below, Fey and Gundren determine that the statue is indeed trapped but out of charge.  Cirrus decides to be straight forward and climbs the stairs to the main door, knocking one of the massive dragon headed knockers.  Triggering the trap of the statue, it opens it's mouth and blows a strong cold wind, the cone of cold long since depleted of power.  As the dragon statue closes it's mouth, Gundren snatches the blue gemstone core of the trap, a split second before losing his arm in the closing jaws.  The huge double doors swing open slowly with a screech of protesting hinges.  Cirrus and Buumi head into the main hall, and as they do, a great shadow flickers across the space and they hear a soft echoing flap of leathery wings. 

Outside, Patches scales along the second story, to the collapsed section of the manor.  As she sticks her hear around the corner, she sees massive webs.  The webs hang down in thick sheets, making it hard to see through but sees hundreds of tiny spiders across their surfaces.  Back in the main hall, Gundren and Fey take it in.  Fey reaches out with his mind, but feels nothing.  Gundren takes the more direct approach simply calling out loudly, hearing some movement and reactions, but getting no response.  As Gundrens voice echoes through the manor, Patches sees all the webs vibrate and sees a dozen monstrous spiders adjust themselves.   Shuddering in revulsion, Patches decides to climb up to the third floor, past the eight legged beasts and climbs into the top-most ruined bedrooms of the place.  Sticking her head out into the hallway, she sees a T-junction and past that, a huge hole in the ceiling leaving a large part of the third floor open to the elements.

In the main hall, Fey has found a side room, a Den, in which is a large black Sarcophagus.  Starting to get really creeped out, Cirrus decides to hang back and summon an unseen servant to explore the place.  Buumi attempts to bolster his spirits, casting Aid upon him but Cirrus just smiles wanly, Buumi offers him a sip of whiskey.  Taking a drink, Cirrus looks at Buumi curiously and asks him how he never seems to run out.  Sheepishly, Buumi pulls from his pack the long forgotten magical vial, that can produce any liquid and explains he's been using it for some time for an infinite amount of booze...  Buumi turns back to exploring and wanting some light in the place, summons light to his hammer before commanding it to orbit the main hall. 

Fey heads into the Den, and as he crosses the threshold, the fireplace erupts.  More curious than afraid, Fey watches as the fire congeals into a dragon form and hisses that it's knights have fallen into shadow and must be saved.  Marking the words, but with his curiosity still peaked by the sarcophagus, Fey goes over to inspect it.  After some deliberation and minor spells, Fey determines the Sarcophagus was a trap of sorts, now disarmed but still containing a Mummy.  Cirrus's unseen servant, has been exploring the outer corridors finding nothing but old moldering pantries and servants quarters.  Just before the kitchens however, the servant enters a room and is destroyed by a flailing Zombie of a long dead house servant.  Cirrus guessing it's location, pops off an Eldritch blast and thinks he hears the undead monster's body fall to the ground.

Gundren begins opening doors on the ground floor, finding an old wine pantry and notices a pair of boots sticking out from behind the last set.  Calling out, Gundren discovers a wounded Dusk Elf; Savid.  After determining no trickery is a foot, Buumi and Gundren move in to help tend to the Elf's wounds, a number of thick splinterlike shards stuck in his side.  Savid explains he was chased into Argynvolstholt by Needleblights and passed out here from his painful wounds.  Thankful for some healing from Buumi, the elf asks if the group has seen a young girl - Arabelle, a Vistani lass who has gone missing.  The group says they have not, but will keep an eye out.  Savid thanks them and takes his leave.

Up on the second floor, Patches sneaks up to the hole in the ceiling and looks around, only to come face to face with a ghostly apparition.  Startled, but keeping her cool, Patches watches it glide off and decides to start heading back to the group.  She finds a stairwell and heads down to the second floor, coming out on the landing overlooking the main hall.

Worried about Patches, Buumi begins to head up to the second floor while Fey, Cirrus and Gundren all head to the back of the main hall, to the doors to what appears to be a dining hall.  They stop short of entering when Gundren notices a glyph of activation at the threshold.  Still exceedingly uncomfortable, Cirrus summons a second unseen servant and sends it back the way the other had died, seeing the now destroyed Zombie, the servant carries on into the kitchens, finding nothing of interest.  Fey and Gundren meanwhile are investigating the rune, looking into the dining room, they see two stone golem knight statues and figure out what the rune activates.  Through some intricate spellcasting and manipulation of magic, the two of them manage to disable the activation rune  and head into the room.  A large glowing chandelier hangs above the ornate dining table, but Gundren just scoffs at it, knowing he could make one in an afternoon.  Cirrus, dismissing his unseen servant, follows them into the room.

Patches, upstairs, heads down the landing, passing the stairs up from the main hall.  She sees a marble pillar in an alcove, covered by a black silk sheet and is intrigued but cautious.  Expecting a head or something in this dreary land, she inspects it and the area thoroughly but finds no traps and the thing under the sheet looks to be perfectly circular.  Still cautious, Patches raises the cloth slowly, glancing underneath and as she does, the silk disintegrates in her hands.  She looks on in horror and disgust as she sees her own severed head on the plinth, covered in spiders, and in her mind Patches hears "TRAITOR!".  Buumi, worried that they have not heard from Patches, has made it up to the second floor looking for her. He spots his friend facing the marble plinth in the alcove, simply staring at it.  Buumi calls his glowing hammer to his hand and replaces it on his belt and heads over to Patches and puts his hand on her shoulder, she flinches and glances at him, her eyes haunted.  Then, suddenly, she grabs the hammer off of Buumi's belt and proceeds to smash the marble, screaming at it in rage and denial.  Breathing heavily, she hands the hammer back to Buumi, not looking into his shocked face.  The two of them head down the hall until Patches sees a curtain rod with more of the black cloth, and without pausing, she grabs the hammer again and smashes the curtain and rod off the wall.

Downstairs in the dining hall, Cirrus, Fey and Gundren are all looking at the stained glass windows at the back of the hall, with doors open to a dark misty chapel beyond them.  Above, Patches heads through a door onto a balcony overlooking the Chapel.  She sees a large chandelier with silver dragons and grapples up to it, to strip it of the silver, only to find it all but worthless.  From her vantage however, she does see three figures, kneeling in plate armor before an altar and quietly messages this down to the group.  Now knowing what to look for, the group manages to pick out the forms of the three Revenants, which Fey confirms with a surface scan for thoughts.  Sensing nothing but darkness, Fey and Gundren decide to head up to the second floor.  Just as they are leaving the dining room, Buumi, a floor above and investigating an old storage room, comes crashing through the ceiling, landing in a heap upon Gundren.  Swearing like the burly old dwarf he is, Gundren extricates himself from the clumsy human, berating Buumi all the while.  Cirrus decides that enough is enough and he tries to convince the group to leave, but Buumi calls upon Helm to bolster their resolve, only to have Cirrus say "Fuck helm!".  Teary eyed, Buumi heads back upstairs with the others, leaving Cirrus in the Dining room mulling over his options.

Buumi sticks his head into a room on the second floor, only for an ash and smoke dragon to explode out from it, covering him and his shiny plate armor in soot.  Fey sticks his head in a few seconds later to see a thoroughly upset Buumi.   Fey however get's a thought, a flash of insight and an image, and heads up to the third floor, with Gundren right behind him all the while.

Back in the Kitchen, Cirrus musters up his courage, and steps into the chapel.  The three Revenants stand and draw their swords, with intent to kill and step towards Cirrus.  Thinking fast, Cirrus recounts the tale of the other Revenant, calls upon the name of their Dragon master - Argynvost, and mentions that they have heard the call of the Dragon spirit.  Mere moments from cutting Cirrus down, the Revenants demand he leave and speak with their grandmaster - Horngaard, and then return to their prayers at the altar.  Terrified, Cirrus runs.  He runs clear out of the building, back to the dragon statue, yelling up to the group about Horngaard.  As Cirrus rushes out the front doors, he stops short, seeing a large chest at the bottom of the steps that was definitely not there before, with a parchment letter resting on it's top.

Patches and Buumi hear Cirrus's confusion and begin to head out to the front of the manor, while Fey and Gundren head up to the rubble strewn third floor.  Looking through a keyhole, they see an old study, with a single chair and large torn painting.  They get the urge to head inside, and when they stand in front of the painting, Gundren uses his skills at artificing to mend the canvas.  As he does this, a ghostly figure appears -  the human form of the dragon Argynvost, long dead.

Out front, Cirrus reaches for the letter and opens it.  The letter has a single sentence: "I want my hat back".  An intensely strong hand smashes out of the wooden chest and grabs Cirrus by the throat, choking him as the Shadow Monk of Gowain smashes out of the container and begins to land devastating blows on Cirrus.  Reacting on instinct, Cirrus calls forth a pillar of hellfire, forcing the monk to drop him and jump back or be incinerated, even dodging, it was a close call for it.  Teleporting to safety as Buumi charges through the front doors to help his friend, Cirrus fires off an eldritch blast, tearing into the Shadow Monk.  Patches grapples to safety on the second floor and watches as the monk get's the life bashed out of it by Buumi's holy hammer.

Up on the third floor, Gundren and Fey are talking with the ghost of the Dragon.  It explains to them that it lived her long before Strahd, guarding a prison of evil known as The Amber Temple, on the slopes of Mt. Ghakis and that it contains a vast repository of arcane knowledge (which Fey immediately latches on to).  It asks them to do him a favor, that when he was killed, Strahd took his remains as a trophy to the castle of Ravenloft.  He asks the group to lay his bones to rest, here in the mausoleum of Argynvolsthold, as it will let him finally sleep, and cleanse his knights of their malediction. Knowing that those before him were not the most goodly of folk, Argynvost sweetens the deal for them by promising to tell them the location of his remaining treasure trove - the one that Strahd did NOT find.  He hands Fey a Platinum piece as he fades, whispering that there is much, much more.  Knowing their purpose, Fey and Gundren head down and out of the Manor as the rest of the group is visited by a stranger.

From her wall mounted perch, Patches sees and hears the horse before anyone else, spying an armed and armored Vistani woman galloping towards them.  Patches alerts the group, but the woman jumps off the horse in front of them, grinning widely and greets the group as Ezmerelda.  A striking woman, beautiful and clearly no novice to battle, she quickly ingratiates herself with Buumi, who appears instantly smitten.  Patches rolls her eyes and begins to pick small stones from the wall to throw at Buumi, the odd pebble clanging and plinking off his armor but he doesn't seem to notice.  Cirrus, exiting the building, illusions himself to look like a beautiful woman and drapes his arm across Buumi's wide shoulders, illiciting a scowl from the Paladin.  Ezmerelda explains quickly that she is being pursued, but wanted to meet the group, hearing of their exploits against Gowain.  She explains she is in the valley - they place of her birth - looking for her master, the Vampire hunter Rudolph Van Richten.  She has found his camp, in an old tower once owned by a no dead lich, but has not found Rudolph.  The group mentions they saw him in Vallaki and she sighs, lamenting that the town refuses to let any Vistani inside.  At this, the pursuit catches up to Ezmerelda, being chased by three Vistani.  The lead rider identifies himself as Arrigal and demands Ezmerelda be handed over to him for horse theft.  The group arrays themselves defensively as Ezmerelda laughs in his face, slapping her horse on it's rum (sending it to Arrigal) and tossing him a gold piece.  The group makes it clear that a battle would be unwise and Arrigal turns to leave, promising Ezmerelda retribution.  Laughing, and thanking the group for their assistance, Ez takes her leave back to Kazhans tower, telling the group where she is going after getting a quick briefing of the state of Argynvolstholt (finding out it's not worth her time).

The group collects their mounts and heads back to Vallaki as the dim sun begins to set.  They make it back without incident and head directly to the Bluewater inn, stabling their mounts and entering the common room for a meal.  Urwen greets the group and seats them at a large table. The inn this night is deserted.  When asked about it, Urwen just shrugs, saying it happens some nights, but he has not seen Rictavio (Van Richten) this evening yet.  The group sits down and hungrily eat their meals, engaging Urwen in conversation.  Urwen is surprised, but happy, to hear that the Ghost of the dragon spoke with them.  The group then reveals that they know he is not what he appears to be.  With some prodding, and expert persuasion from Cirrus, Urwen reveals his secret.  Urwen is a were-raven, and turns into the Kenku-like Ravenform he possesses before shifting back to human.  He re-introduces himself as Urwen of the Keepers of the Feather, an order of wereravens within Barovia, sworn to protect the people from Strahd...
