---
title: "Barovia - Session 6"
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: "Barovia"
session: 6
---

The group found themselves at the top of the small hill where the old Bonegrinder once stood.  Now, the old windmill was nothing but a burning corpse of a building.  Fey finds a bag of holding on the corpse of Morgantha and ties her severed head to his belt.  Tired and hurt and the sun long since gone, the group began looking around for a good camp site.  The mists of Barovia had begun to thicken, and Fey and Buumi were fearful that the burning building may draw undesirable attention.   A little closer to the woods, not too far from the Old Bonegrinder, the group spotted some standing stone and decided to head over there, using the Megaliths to form a defensive perimeter.  Patches had an ulterior motive for going to the stones.  

Once the group got to the stones, however, they noticed a pile of children's teeth in the center, from all the dead children the Hags had consumed.  The act of piling the children's teeth desecrated the site, and it was useless to patches who wished to try and use it as the center of a ritual to cleanse her cursed dagger.  Upon noticing the pile of teeth, Cirrus relapses and lunges for them, Fey, thinking that he is helping tries to get as many of them into the bag of holding as possible.  Buumi, however, is having none of it and physically restrains Cirrus, pulling him away from the teeth until he calms down, afterward Cirrus claims to have blacked out.  Buumi then takes the bag of teeth from Fey and marches back up the hill to the burning building, dumping the bag out into the fire before returning it to Fey.

  The rest of the group was somewhat confused with patches Goal. Having thought that Patches had long since dominated the sentient evil artifact.  Patches, however, knows differently and tells the group that since arriving in Barovia, the Hag inside the sword has been getting more powerful and making attempts to possess Patches body and consume her soul.  For now, however, Patches must stay strong and resist the cursed blade as it looks like she will be unable to cleanse it while in Barovia.

The group goes about setting up a heavily defended camp.  Setting up in the standing stones and making it as sheltered and cozy as possible, Cirrus, Patches, and Fey all go about setting up defenses.  The main group within the stones, with the mounts, children, and beds are then surrounded by  Earthen ramparts, shaped by spells and a small moat, after which Patches set up five tripwires as an early warning system.

Secure within their fortified camp, Ireena and Buumi take first watch, seeing the occasional Zombie prowling through the mists but seemingly oblivious to the group.  Eventually, and after seeing sever, the group realizes that all the zombies are heading towards Vallaki for some unknown reason.  The group settles down to sleep through the night.

In the dark hours of the morning, Buumi wakes up Fay to point out something he sees in the mists - a Will'o'wisp.  Enticed by the possibility of something interesting, Fey wakes up the rest of the group.  Buumi remains behind with Ireena and the other camp followers, but the rest head off into the mists.  To ensure they can find their way back, Patches breadcrumbs a trail of slightly magical stones.  The group sees more Zombies shambling, Tark wraps darkness around the group to assist in their stealthy walk.

Eventually, the group sees that the Will'o'wisp has stopped and they begin to scout the area, seeing an ancient, mostly collapsed tower up ahead that the Wisp had stopped inside.  Patches begins to circle the tower while Cirrus commands his Owl familiar to fly in from above and relay the information to him.  Fey sits down against a lump of rock and simply waits, lounging.  Tark waits near Fey, excited with anticipation.   The Owl reports to Cirrus that there are two treasure chests inside the tower.  Looking at one another, Fey and Cirrus shrug and summon unseen servants to go inside and retrieve the chests for them.  The unseen servants head inside and begin to lift the chest.  The moment it is disturbed, however, a score of Zombies burst out from the loose earth at the feet of the party, ambushing them.

Patches finds herself surrounded by five zombies, while Fey, Tark and Cirrus find themselves surrounded by the other fifteen.  Everyone takes hits as they reel in surprise, but Fey keeps his cool...and drops a Fireball practically at his feet.  Having judged the range perfectly, the Zombie horde they face is turned to ash as the fireball detonates, crumbling a section of the tower and turning a section of earth to glass.

patches hurls a smoke bomb at her feet and quickly disengages, retreating to the main group and assassinating several Zombies.  Cirrus gets stabbed by a rusty spear and in his anger, a great light pours forth from his screaming mouth, disintegrating the Zombie attacker.  Tark proceeds to engage several Zombies.  The owl, trying to be helpful, picks up a large stone and tries to drop it on the Zombie fighting Tark, it misses badly almost hitting Tark until the monk ducks underneath the Zombie at the last second and the rock splats into the creature's skull.   Froggie, the small Jade construct leaps on a Zombie and begins to stab away wildly with its little dagger.

Quite quickly, the horde of zombies is all but annihilated, with one last fireball being cast into Patches' smoke cloud, destroying the last few Zombies.  The group opens the chest to see what they find.  Fey is greeted by the sight of his corpse, crushed and crammed into the chest and panics (gaining an insanity point) backing away babbling to himself with wide eyes.  Tark looks inside, seeing just a normal skeleton and finds a potion of Diminutiveness and a Gold Incense Censer.  After Fey regains his wits, he investigates the Censer, determining that with the correct Incense, they could use the item to summon an air elemental.  The group then checks for the second chest, having one of the unseen servants try to clear away the rubble of the damaged tower.  As it does this, it is attacked and devoured by the pinned Mimic beneath the rubble.  The group backs away from the trapped Mimic and for good measure, collapses the rest of the tower atop it.

The group backtracks back to camp, following the magic stone markers.  Once back at camp, they tell Buumi and Ireena what they missed before settling down for the rest of the night.

Waking up to the dreary Barovian morning of mist, drizzle and subdued sunlight, the group disassembles their camp and heads along the Svalich road to Vallaki, making sure to stick to the path and not wander off into the misty woods.  Along the road, they catch a glimpse of a massive dark lake at the foot of the huge mountains, Ireena tells the group that she heard tales of dark things beneath the Waters...

As the group nears the town of Vallaki, they hear the sounds of distant battle - the clash of weapons and crack of muskets.  Making haste along the road, but having the owl scout on ahead, the group sees the town beset by a horde of undead.  Over fifty Zombies are all pressed up around the main gate.  The defenders seem to have things well in hand however with musket fire coming down atop the Zombies from the stone walls of the town, while pikemen stab between the bars of the gate, well beyond the reach of the Zombies.  The real threat, however, is simply standing back from the conflict, proselytizing the glory of Strahd - Gowain.    Gowain, the Shadow Abbot turns as the group approaches, smiling wryly as Tark runs up along the road waving Gowains Wolf Skin hat calling out for Gowain.  Gowain is surprised, but in his arrogance, simply accepts that Tark is clearly here to return his hat out of fear of retribution.  The moment Gowain holds out his hand to retrieve the hat, Tark teleports away, with a lance of explosive fire hot on his heels.  The fireball from Fey detonates behind Gowain, turning the horde of Zombies to ash and flash drying the mud outside the gate.  Gowain is knocked forwards by the blast, but teleports to safety, choosing not to engage the group.

The group approaches the gate with as much fanfare as possible, cantrips and holy light emanating from them.  The city guard is astonished and impressed, having witnessed the powerful conflagration that annihilated a small army of Zombies, and seeing Ireena of Barovia village with them (as well as three children) the guards swing wide the gate on order of Boris Borison, captain of the Vallaki guard.  Seeing the power of the group, Boris insists that they meet with the Burgomaster, as he would welcome powerful allies against Strahd.  Before the group heads too far into the town, Ireena decides to take her leave and head to her Uncles.  She thanks the group for their assistance and promises payment if they come to the Toy Makers shop in the next few days.  Ireena then takes the too children rescued from the Hags with her and heads off into the town.  The group continues on, past the stockyard and coffinmaker shop, until they make it to the town center.  Here they see a large plaza, adorned with old wilting decorations proclaiming the festivities of the "wolf's head Jamboree".  In the center of the plaza is a stage with five figures in stocks, a few men, women and even children, left out in the rain with large donkey head effigies on them.  It is obvious that some of those in the stocks have died from exposure...

Concerned, the group asks Boris why the people there are being punished, to which he replies that they are there for being malcontents and spreading ill-cheer.  Furious at this reponse, the group storms up to the stage, Buumi looking imperious in his full armor and beginning to eminate a holy glow.  Patches and Cirrus make short work of the locks, freeing the survivors.   Boris is freaking out at this, knowing that this goes against the orders of the Burgomaster, but having no wish to cross swords with what to him look to be incredibly powerful heroes.  Fey awkwardly puts his arm around Boris's shoulders and whispers into his mind not to resist...

As this all happens, Izek, the henchmen of the Burgomaster storms into the square with five soldiers, demanding the group stop, but as he does a creature of pure flame erupts from a nearby Brazier (coaxed out by Tark using the power of his ring).  Seeing something incredible and deadly and not quite knowing how to respond to a being of pure flame, the guards and Izek back off.  Tark however leaps forwards and begins to playfight with it - albeit badly - to distract and confuse the guards and allow the prisoners to escape the plaza.  The moment the prisoners are out of sight, Tark dismisses the elemental, pretending to kill it with a flourish.

Confused, but impressed, Izek demands Boris return to his post and then demands the group come with him to see the Burgomaster, which they had already been on their way to see.  Not appreciating the brusque treatment, the group lets Izek know in no uncertain terms that the guards with him would not be enough to save him and he should back off.    Put in his place somewhat, Izek takes the group to the Burgomasters mansion, stopping briefly to point out the Bluewater Inn before continuing to the Manor of the Burgomaster. 

Izek leaves the group in the foyer of the Manor and heads up to the Library to tell Vargas that he has powerful guests.  The group decides to snoop around.  Cirrus illusions himself to look like Boris and begins to open every single door on the ground floor, while Patches sneaks upstairs to evesdrop on Izek.  After looking into several empty, but rather nice rooms (dining room, pantry, den etc.) Cirrus opens a door to a tea-party in progress, seeing eight women enjoying pastries and tea.  The lady of the manor asks Boris what he's doing there, to which Cirrus replies "looking for your husband 'mam".  She thinks nothing of it and Cirrus keeps looking around, finding the kitchens.  Inside, he finds the cook and convinces him to bring a full dinner to the Den for guests of the Burgomaster.  The group then heads into the Den to relax and await the Burgomaster.

Upstairs, Patches overhears the end of Izeks conversation, with the Burgomaster being eager to meet with such a powerful group as potential allies.  Izek then takes his leave and heads back into town and Patches returns to the Den ahead of the Burgomaster.  Vargas arrives moments later and eagerly meets with the group, asking if they are here to fight Strahd and mentioning the upcoming festival of the sun.  Patches asks to use the rest room and leaves, sneaking up to the Library where she ransacks it for loot and information, finding several spell scrolls and a handful of rare books.

The group notices that the Burgomaster is clearly unhinged, grasping as straws to save the town from Strahd.

** **
