---
title: "Barovia - Session 5"
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: "Barovia"
session: 5
---

The group rested up on the high road, just after the Bridge spanning the Tser Chasm.  Tark appears out of the mist, confused, but after a few seconds everything seems normal and no one seems to notice his absence.  As the group decides to head on along the road to Vallaki, they ask Ireena what they can expect.  She tells them of the ominous gates that separate the Valley in half, huge and unmanned.  Patches moves on ahead, scaling a small cliff and hill to get a good view and confirms that the massive gate is a duplicate of the ones they had seen before and are indeed unmanned.  The group continues on, through the gates and begins to descend into the valley.  Behind them, up the slope of the mountain looms the Castle Ravenloft, ahead of them in the valley, shrouded in mists and dreary rain, is a dark forest with the town of Vallaki nestled between it and the banks of a large lake, the mountains rising steeply facing the town across the water. 

Before the forest, on a small hill, with an unkempt winding path leading from the road is an old windmill.  The group, knowing the hags live there, head there before proceeding on to the town of Vallaki.  Most of the group is heading there to destroy them and free any children they find.  Wanting to try and get something useful from the hags before combat, Fey rushes on ahead with Tark following closely and curiously.  The group wisely stops before getting too close and decides to discuss their plan.  Fey and Tark will head in, with Tark pretending to be a child and being hypnotised by Fey to sell the illusion of Fey coming with a gift in exchange for knowledge.  Patches will infiltrate from the roof and the rest of the group will hide outside, awaiting a signal to move in.  Mr. Pickles and Chekhov will remain well outside the range of combat, behind some boulders with the mounts tethered even farther down the path (I'm sure the horses are easily kept in line by the War Tiger...).

Fey and Tark move in.  The moment Fey calls out, Granny Morgantha the Night Hag, opens the door with a smile and beckons them inside.  Patches scales the outside of the building, silent in her Drow Piwafwi and enters the top most floor through a large crack in the ceiling.  In the attic, Patches finds a small box, dusty with age and finds a cache of precious jewels and gems which she pockets.  Patches makes it to the ladder down to the next room and peers down, seeing two ugly younger women, in gowns of stitched flesh, tormenting two children in cages by stabbing them with long needles and cackling at the pained cries.  This does not sit well with Patches, but she waits, biding her time.

Below, Fey and Morgantha chat.  The hag is delighted by the gift of a child and tells Fey that their mistress - Baba Lysaga, resides in a town not far away that Strahd annihilated some centuries ago.  Wanting more than vague directions, Fey pushes in an attempt to get something more solid.  Not pleased with the Mages tone - even spoken directly into her mind telepathically, she is not impressed or swayed and begins to get annoyed at being treated this way in her own home.  Morgantha silently calls to her daughters, fearing trouble form this mage.  Upstairs, the two ugly women transform into beautiful young women in gowns of silk and head downstairs to join their mother, leaving patches an opening to rescue the children.  Patches quickly makes it to the cages and easily picks the locks.  Quietly, she brings them to the roof where she shoots a web from her Bracers to act as a Zipline.  The first child makes it down to the waiting group easily, the second however falls mid way, falling 10ft to the soft mud uttering a cry of surprise and dismay...

Below, Fey and Morgantha have had enough of one another and Fey turns to storm out of the windmill, grabbing the dazed Tark by the hand and pulling him along - only for his trailing arm to be caught by the hag.  Fey telepathically warns the group and they begin to move into position.  Fey and Morgantha lock stares, a tense standoff, suddenly broken by the cries of the falling child.  Everything freezes for a second.  Fey slams his will and magic into the face of Morgantha, stunning her for a moment and releases the spell on Tark who turns to attack the two hags descending the stairs.  As this happens, Gundren fires two Phosphor shells into the exterior wall of the windmill, blowing a 10ft flaming hole in the side and taking the hags completely by surprise.  Through the whole, Gwen leaps inside and begins to rake at the hags with her Mithril claws.  Tark lays into the hags with a flurry of blows.  Ireena leaps through the burning hole with her two flintlock pistols and unloads into Morgantha.  Patches, having snuck down the stairs behind the hags, begins to backstab them.  Buumi, seeing all the means of egress blocked, decides to make his own door and charges the brittle wall to the right of the door, yelling an oath to Helm!  Only to smash into the wall and make it about halfway through and becoming lodged.  In frustration, Buumi throws his hammer, smacking the face of one of the hags and knocking out a tooth, which Fey mage hands into Patches pocket.

Beset from all sides, with their house burning down and breaking around them, the hags turn ethereal one by one, but not before knocking over a barrel of foul oil, from which spring three Banderhobbs.  Seeing the structure quickly disintegrating, Tark decides to expedite things as Fey calls for a retreat from the doomed building.  Backing out whilst laying down fire, the group extricates itself from the combat.  Tark teleports to the remaining supporting beam, smashing it and then using it to leap clear from the building, hitting Buumi on the way out and clearing him from the wall he was stuck in.  Gwen uses her magic missiles to shatter the beam and then with a roar, shoots a mighty lightning bolt through the main floor of the building.  Feeling the building giving way beneath her, Patches dives from a second story window, down to the ground floor.  With a groan and the cracking of splintering wood, the whole building comes down in a flaming heap atop the Banderhobbs and ethereal Hags.  Showered by splinters, the group takes superficial damage.  Expecting the worst, the group gets to their feet and prepares to meet the monsters, knowing they are not done.  No sooner had they done so, then the rubble shifts and a battered Banderhobb climbs from the wreckage, only to be immediately shot by the entire group.  With a sickening pop, it explodes from a well placed Thundercannon shot.  The hags however use this moment to attack.  Coming from the wreckage in their ethereal form, Morgantha lines up the group and casts Cone of Cold, freezing and chilling the party with waves of deadly cold.  Fey is dropped, as is Gwen, with Gerwan teetering on the brink of consciousness.   Buumi, Gundren and Tark are burned by the horrible cold but stay on their feet as the other two hags rake at them with their claws.  Patches, circling the destroyed building, tosses a flash grenade at the feet of two hags, blinding Morgantha.  Buumi uses Tark to distract one hag as he rushes to Fey's side to Lay on Hands, and hands Gerwan a healing potion.  Ireena and Gundren, shaken from the cold but not out of the fight, destroy the hag in front of them with a series of rapid shots.  Tark teleports behind Morgantha and quickly snaps her neck with a kick while Patches stabs at her with her powerful sword.  The final hag, seeing the group recovering from even the powerful magic of her now dead mother, turns ethereal and flees, finally recognising how horribly out matched they were. 

The group, battered, magically drained but victorious, stand in front of the burning wreckage of The Old Bonegrinder.  Behind the group, the children look on as the flames engulf the wreckage.  Looking closely, the group thinks they can see small childlike faces in the flames as the den of evil is consumed.

** **

** **
