---
title: "Neverwinter - Session 4"
chapter: 2
chapterTitle: "Neverwinter"
session: 4
---

Tark and Fey'Anon find themselves alone facing Sha'Alazzi.  The small bald man smiles at them and says "come now, the whole group would make it too easy! I did bring in that ranger friend of yours though from the woods…".   Fey and Tark look at each other at a loss, Tark reaches for the small model tower on the shelf and tries to move it, but it is firmly rooted in place.  After about forty five seconds, a flash of light and the group re-appears.   JmJm, Dr.B and Gundren all head into the box for a rest.

    Tark and Fey ask what transpired and Patches gives them the short and sweet version of the tower battle mentioning Demons, Buumi corrects her several times that they were in fact Devils.   Sha'Alazzi rewards the group and hopes to see them again in the future, he then leaves to take care of other customers. 

   The group leaves the pavilion and finds themselves standing in the middle of one of the "streets" formed by the numerous tents.  The group decides to keep exploring the festival and head down the street.  Along the way however, a brawl erupts from a nearby beer tent, eight combatants drunkenly stumbling about and flailing.  Tark ignores the fight and attempts to make his way through using his monk training to avoid the fighting.  He blocks and dodges and weaves through the drunken fray until being smashes in the back by a barstool and stumbles out on the other side of the brawl.

  Having none of the ruckus, Fey'Anon attempts to put the whole lot to sleep with a spell.  Casting the spell puts four of the ruffians to sleep, two more have already passed out from their drink, and the final two were already standing back to back (as much for support as anything) fighting the rest.  Seeing themselves as the last two standing, they proclaim drunken victory and head back into the tent for a round of well earned drink.  Guards rush up to settle the brawl but find it already done for them.  The guards ask what occurred and a little old lady points out that Fey cast some spell that put them to sleep.  The guards thank him for the quick thinking and begin to clear the street as the group keeps going to their destination. Buumi wanders back to the group with a large flagon of Ale.  Annoyed at being corrected earlier, Patches convinces Buumi to keep his helmet on at all times…

  Up ahead of the group a large red tent looms with quite a crowd gathered out front.  A large glass potion bottle hangs suspended magically in the air above the tent entrance, spewing forth multicolored bubbled that catch and float on the soft breeze.  Out front of the tent, a man in a brilliant red outfit is entertaining by drinking potions and breathing fire and then ice.  Excitedly, Tark attempts to communicate with the fire breath, but is unsuccessful.  The group notices a small gnome with enormous bushy eyebrows out front of the tent who also sees them and beckons them over.  Tark begins a lively conversation with the Gnome, asking him what kind of things they sell.  Fandoodle, the Gnome proclaims excitement upon hearing that Tark recently imbibed a potion of Fire Giant Strength and begins to take notes and asking questions.  When interrupted by Patches, he dismissively waves her away, but not before trying to get a look under her hood. 

He strikes up a deal with Tark, in exchange for urine samples after drinking rare potions, he will give the group a discount.  The group purchases a potion of Frost Giant Strength at a discount and Patches picks up eight doses of Burnt Other poison.  The group exits the tent and looks around, noting that the sun is almost set and patrons and festival goers are beginning to head out for the day.  The entertainer who was out front of the alchemy shop is closing down for the night.  The group asks him which direction to a spell store and the man shows them a map of the Festival proper.

  Heading the direction that came from and past Sha'alazzi's, the group passes a smaller purple tent that catches their eyes, with a dashing Moon elf leaning against a post outside.  His amber eyes look at the group with interest, going especially wide when he notices a Drow and Wood Elf walking side by side.  Both female elves are quite smitten with the gorgeous moon elf and the group approaches him to inquire about his business.  He chats with the group, mentioning that he sells exotic goods from far off places.  The group enters and begins to peruse, noting the artificial darkness within the tent.  The Moon Elf - Raylen, flicks a coin to Patches, which she catches and notes it's an insignia of Bregan D'aerthe.  Raylen smiles and offers to show them the back room.  He then takes them behind a flap in the tent, which appeared to be the tent exterior wall, inside the group finds numerous Underdark weapons, armor and even a Manticore in a cage.   The group peruses for a while but ends up not buying anything and heads onwards to the spell store.

  On the way, the group is accosted by a very drunk foppish lord who brandishes his rapier at them, challenging any of them to a battle!  Tark loudly proclaims that Buumi will put him in his place!  Buumi, very drunk at this point, staggers forwards to engage in a fistfight with the Lord.  In the split second it takes the Lord to register he's up against a fully armored Paladin, Buumi punches him right in the face, forgetting he's wearing gauntlets of Ogre strength.  With a crunch of bone, the lord drops straight to the floor and Buumi is left standing looking surprised.  He high-fives Tark, knocking him to the ground.  The group carefully hides the unconscious and badly hurt lord back in the beer tent he stumbled out of, looting a few valuables including his signet ring, a diamond and a bracelet.  Buumi is coerced into the Tavern of Doors, stumbling and falling down the stairs in a crash and heap.  A few seconds later, his loud snoring reaches the ears of the group.  A few bystanders are chuckling about the annoying lord getting what he deserved. One older lady catches the eye of Patches, and she blanches, realizing she's looking at a Dow and quickly hurries inside her tent.

  The group makes it to the Spell emporium, a large silvery tent, made out of a cloth like mercury.  They enter and are greeted by a small blue slimy Spectator, who lets them know he has his eyes on them and not to steal! Fey notices that this tent is extra dimensional, but that The Tavern of Doors doesn’t rip a tear in space time by being inside it, he theorizes that maybe the Tavern is not a pocket plane but that the box is actually a portal to another place entirely. 

  Fey'Anon begins to peruse the spells with the help of an illusionary assistant.  The group sells the signet ring of the lord they just looted and buy the Geas spell.  A small commotion from the back of the room alerts the group to the dragonchess tournament.  Tark makes his way forwards and tries to anticipate the moves in the game.  Realizing the winning move, Tark exclaims it to a nearby patron and begins a lively discussion over possible moves.  The game is won and as the crowd disperses, Tark is greeted by a friendly face - Penelope Harpell of Longsaddle.  She asks about the groups adventures and is most intrigued, she mentions Harkell came back to the Ivy Mantion in a huff and has been researching endlessly since he returned.  She bids the group farewell as she continues her shopping.  The group decides to return the next day so that Fey'Anon can participate in the Chess tournament.  **(next time, better mention the creatures in the store and have Penelope show up again to explain tournament rules, have the Frog familiar show up for Fey, Keen mind feat after chess).**

**  **Tark cannot stand it anymore and bee-lines it towards the martial tournament.  The group follows.  They make their way to a large stone arena, surrounded by wooden bleachers.  A fight is already taking place between a large fat unarmed man and a man wielding a practice sword and shield, wearing a fancy gambeson.  As they watch, the fat man throws the sword wielder from the ring, to great applause.  The group heads to the registration desk and Tark, Patches and Lothli sign up to participate.  They head to the contestant waiting room and run into Moot who greets them warmly, his flock of canaries flying around chirping and getting reacquainted with Ysera, the canary that went with Tark.  Moot hears about the adventures and remarks that he is happy to see them all.  Ysera is particularly happy.  Tark gains the feat: Alert, as long as Ysera is around. 

  The group is called to fight their qualifying rounds, best 2/3.  Tark immediately puts his opponent down in a flurry of blows.  Patches sneaks over to ambush her target, almost taking him out in one go, but Lothli has a harder time.

  Wielding a wooden short sword, Lothli trades blows with her opponent, taking him down but getting bloodied in the process.  Patches takes out her opponent quickly and without incident and the group makes it on to the second round.  Once again, Tark annihilates his opponent quickly, Patches ambushes hers, and Lothli goes toe to toe with a sword wielding Dwarf.  Lothli again takes a few brutal hits before putting the Dwarf down.  The group wins their rounds, and advance on to the tournament proper.  Tark facing the Knight Verith, Patches vs Gascione and Lothli versus the Champion of the Moonwood: and elf named Hendrell. 

The Sun is well and truly down now and the group decides to head back to the Moonstone Mask Inn.  On the way, they run into two wagons that are intertwined, the drivers arguing as their men gather the spilled goods.  One of them asks the group to rough up his adversary, but the group refuses.  The aggressor takes his goods and leaves and the remaining merchant gives the group a few gold for helping him out.

  Making it to the Moonstone mask, the group mills around, chatting with Patrons.  Patches sees her combatant for the tournament and proceeds to get him quite drunk, having him pass out.  Tark notices a lord with fabulous arms and armor surrounded by admirers; Lord Penterghast of Waterdeep. 

The group talks with Bastillon, Captain of the Sea Spirit who has sailors going missing down at the docks, he offers the group 700g after haggling to investigate his missing crew.  The group also talks with Jasmond of Canderberry, a local pathetic looking lord who is convinced the Thieves Guild is getting bolder and asks the group to investigate Raylen's store for evidence of shady business.  Deciding that they weren't as tired as they thought, the group heads out from the Inn to head to the docks to look into the missing sailors.

  As the group nears the docks and turn down a side alley, they see two hooded figures close together.  One drops to the ground, unmoving, the other dashes to a nearby building and begins to quickly scale it.  The group shoots him with numerous projectiles, almost taking him from the building.  Tark, Lothli and Patches rush after him, Fey'Anon stopping to see that the other figure is a dead man with a stab wound in the heart. 

The group follows the blood trail, jumping from building to building. Tark doesn’t make the second jump, falling into the alley below as he smacks his face into the wall and shoots off his web bracer with no effect.  Lothli goes to make the jump too, but is struck by a crossbow bolt and drops into the alley, Tark catching her unconscious body.  Patches leaps the building, looking for the Assassin, but gets a dagger pressed against her back and is told to drop the pursuit and leave, the assassin, seeing she's drow mentions "I thought we had a deal?", she listens to the advice and heads back to the group.

  Lothli is gravely wounded but is fed a healing potion and she stabilizes.  The crossbow bolt though is poisoned and she quickly worsens.  The group rushes into the box and wakes Buumi who rushes to her side, pulling out the Bolt and laying on hands, healing her mostly and neutralizing the poison.  Enraged by the near loss of a teammate, the group thinks that the attack must have been from Raylen, as the bolt was of Drow design.

  The group rushes back to the fair grounds to Raylen's tent, but find it weirdly empty and the back room inaccessible. The group wants to burn down the tent, but Buumi will have none of it.  Patches then tells the group not to mess with Raylen as he's a member of Bregan and gave her a coin saying that.  Forgetting what that means, the rest of the group needed a reminder that The Black Spider and the other Drow in Wave Echo Cave were of that group and are not to be trifled with.  Deciding that no answers will be found in an empty tent, the group heads through the dark fair grounds to the tent Patches had marked as a thieves guild establishment.

  Upon entering, all eyes go to the group and conversations stop. The proprietor, a halfling named Benny, waves them over and begins a conversation.    The group exclaims they came across a sloppy assassination and that the assassin should be ashamed, and that he almost killed their friend.  A number of rogues stand and loom threateningly and one of them proclaims that they were the ones that attacked him!  Benny, not appreciating the dumb rogue clearly telling his guilt to strangers, banishes him from the tent and settles the groups anger telling them they had best let it go and that there were some jobs if the group was willing.  Buumi, very uncomfortable by the whole event, leaves the tent.  The group hears about an Art heist being planned and that some idiot noble has been harassing Raylen and they need someone to "convince" the lord to drop it.  The group is also introduced to the gambling board for the festival, Tark then proceeds to bet against his new magical ring that Lothli will win the archery competition.  Benny accepts, noting the payout will be 10,000 gold if Lothli wins…

The group heads back to the moonstone mask inn, and settles into their single room for the night, the group actually residing in The Tavern of Doors.
