---
title: "Neverwinter - Session 11"
chapter: 2
chapterTitle: "Neverwinter"
session: 11
---

Following the Balgura demon, Patches makes her way to the Demon stronghold in the forest.  Once there, she negotiated as a priestess of Lolth with a Glabrezu and Chasme Demon. Gaining their trust, Patches convinces the demons to give her their key and she will lead them to attack the devils at her signal.  She leaves, breathing much easier and meets up with Lothli and the strange Elf and Dwarf they ran into (Jedds parents).  Across the forest, Fey Anon is taken to meet with a Malbranche Devil.  Acting as if he is a servant of Asmodeus, Fey convinces the Devils, even go so far as to get one of the bearded devils executed.  With the same deal as Patches, the group meets back at the archway portal to the next area, leaving the demons and devils.

The group then finds themselves in an ornate marble tomb, four sarcophagi of exquisite craftsmanship are in the center of the chamber.  At the far end is the next archway, but it is flanked by two ancient thrones, in which sit ancient armored skeletons.  An altar lies in front of them, with four metal keys on it.

As the group approaches, a ghostly glow suffuses the skeletons seated in the thrones and they take on a ghostly look of what they used to look like, vibrant and glorious paladin kings. Nebbuchanezzar and Azrael tell the group one of they keys opens the portal, all the rest are trapped.  The group manages to discern the correct one (Patches, who just grabs it) but not before they choose incorrectly and Fey anon gets electrocuted.  After picking the right key, the group is teleported to one end of the room, and the paladin ghosts rise from their thrones, holding their greatswords aloft.  The sarcophagi lids slide off to the floor, and four ancient mummies begin to climb out.  The group attacks quickly, setting fire to one mummy within his box, another getting pummled and magic and shot being directed at the Paladin kings.  Engaging in defensive formations, the paladin kings deal out heavy damage while healing, ressurecting and buffing their allies.  Tark is struck with a curse, preventing healing and he is knocked uncocnious not long after before getting a second wind smashing into Nebuchanezzar and downing him.  Azrael and his mummies do significant damage to the group, almost taking down many, but cannot prevail and is destroyed.  The moment the kings go down, mummies fall inactive.  The group takes a much needed break, healing and mending themselves before heading further inside the Vault.
