---
title: Silverymoon - Session 1
chapter: 6
chapterTitle: Silverymoon
session: 1
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "cercei"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gebbin-steeltoe"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "zhengyi"
places:
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "sundabar"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "tavern-of-doors"
  - "thundercannon"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
---

After putting some distance between themselves and the site of the Bandit massacre, the group pulls the wagon to a stop for the rest of the night.  Setting up camp, the group pulls the wagon in close as Patches strings up a tripwire perimeter.  Fey camps on the back of the Wagon, reading his spell book and combing through all the treasure the group had gotten, identifying items and transcribing spells.  Buumi and Cercei talk for a bit, with Tark coming over and asking numerous questions of the little girl - such as if she can fly?  Tentatively, Cercei says that she can, but not in her human form.  To put her at ease, Tark enacts the magic of his staff and flits around the area, showing off.  Put at ease, Cercei transforms into her Hatchling form - a small dragon the size of a hunting dog and begins flying around after Tark.  Buumi smiles, but it fades as he realizes that his daughters nature will certainly change as she loses her shorter lived friends and family members and he calls out to Fey and Patches that he made need their help.  Patches and Gundren have been going over some of the treasure and Patches shows the Artificer the gun she picked up from Castle Ravenloft - a Revolver.  Astounded, the dwarf and his brothers crowd around and after some inspection hand it back over to the Drow.  Patches takes several old bottles and sets them up on a log, taking careful aim and then shooting them with cracks of thunder.  The whole camps looks at her stunned and she returns to the campfire smiling.  Cercei shifts back to her human form and heads back to Buumi, who has taken the little girls pillow and stuffed it with coins, thinking a dragon would appreciate such things, he also takes the ornate fur cloak Patches found and drapes it around the little girl.  Tark and Cercei eat their food ravenously and Buumi lets out a cry of displeasure, rushing to his daughter to try and instruct her in some good table manners, pointing out Fey's perfect etiquette and restraint as the elf picks at his own food.  After some instruction, it appears that the little girl gets it and Buumi falls asleep by the fire.  Everyone heads to their bedrolls and the group sleeps for several hours, until they are awoken mid morning by a downpour of rain.

  The group packs up quickly and starts to head off again, breath pluming in the cold weather and everything becoming quickly drenched.  Up ahead, the group spies the localized thunderstorm surrounding the ruins of Ascore on the edge of the desert.  Tark suggests they head straight on through but Fey stops the group, mentioning the many monsters and dangers a lair of this sort would present and the group decides to skirt it instead, adding several hours onto their trip.  With the wagon rolling along the artificial road created by Cirrus, they still make good time.  Skirting the edge, they look across the rocky, barren plains and see numerous dust devils, sandy sinkholes and even the shimmering carapace of a huge beetle.  It also appears that the group has caught they eye of several giant Vultures and Patches points them out to the group as they circle several hundred feet above.  The group doesn't think much of them until it's pointed out that food rations may actually be an issue at some point - no one will starve, but Hard Tack gets quite boring.  The group stops and comes up with a plan to lure one of the giant birds down, kill it and harvest its meat.  Buumi hurls out a pork chop, one of the last rations from the Tavern of Doors.  Before the pork chop hits the ground and is ruined, Cirrus catches it with a mage's hand and admonishes Buumi for his wastefulness.  As one of the vultures circles down, Patches takes aim with her heavy crossbow and then looses a bolt.  Just as she fires, Tark enacts a spell of darkness on the bolt and it flies up, an inky sphere of absolute darkness that slams into the vulture.  Tark then shadowsteps into the globe and breaks the vulture's neck with an elbow drop, riding the dead creature to the ground with a wet thud.  He tries to drag the huge bird over to the group and is having some trouble until Buumi helps him with it.  Thirty minutes later, the Dwarves have efficiently butchered the carcass and Fey has seared all the meat and put it into a bag of holding.  The group leaves the remains for it's two friends which circle down to feast on the carcass.

  The group makes good time the rest of the day, making the edge of the desert and the beginning foothills of the Nether Mountains, the forest of Arn laying before them.  With the sun going down and the rain finally letting up a little, the group decides to make camp on the edge of the forest and skirt around it the next day.  Fey continues his studies, handing off magical items as he determines their identities.  Gundren takes the magnificently bejeweled helmet they found in Strahds treasury, Strahds ornate breastplate and Rahadins cloak of silken strips and begins strutting around, decked out better than a Dwarven king!  The Rockseeker brothers crowd around, cooing in excitement at all the treasure.  Meanwhile, Patches exchanges words with Cercei, training her a little more for the world and Buumi tries his best to be a good father for the girl.  As the temperature drops and the remaining drizzle of rain turns to flakes of snow, Buumi asks Gundren for the Ring of Warmth and hands it to his daughter to keep her cozy.  Across the camp one of the tripwires twangs as it's broken and Patches rushes over to check on it, coming face to face with a little dusty creature - a Dust Mephit.  The small imp-like creature is looking at the broken tripwire and notices Patches, chattering at her in an unknown language.  Patches alerts the group and they watch in fascination as the little elemental flutters over to the wagon in a shower of dust and begins rooting around.  Cercei sneaks over to the wagon, intent on a target and begins climbing the back of the wagon to get up to the creature.  Once she reaches the top, she shifts and twists and reverts to her dragon form, crouched low and compact as a hunting cat.  She wiggles a little, adjusting to spring and then launches.  The Mephit lets out a cry of terror as it notices the leaping hatchling and manages to get away, just in time.  Fey, fascinated by the elemental and unwilling to let it leave just yet, snaps his fingers and causes the creature to fall out of the air, fast asleep.  He scoops up the little creature and begins taking notes, making sketches and generally examining the thing from head to toe as Cercei leans her head down from atop the wagon to watch.

  A few hours later, the group is around the campfire, eating the delicious vulture meat and sharing in whiskey poured from Buumi's flask...and mayonnaise poured from Cirrus' newly identified alchemy jug.  Turns out Cercei likes Mayo as much as Cirrus does...taking a break from eating two gallons of mayonnaise, Cirrus turns to Tark and begins a conversation about his old master.  After a few minutes, Cirrus finds out that Tark has no idea if Gabbock is alive or dead and asks him if he wants to find out.  Eyes going wide, Tark says that he does and Cirrus prepares his spell of dreaming.  Entering the dream world, Tark finds himself in an expanse of darkness, with a lone figure in front of him huddled into a ball.  Tark approaches and finds his master in a sorry state.  All skin and bone, with whispy white hair, unhealthy skin and milky blind eyes, Gabbock is a shadow of his former self.  Tark tries to talk to him, but the man thinks it's a trick until Tark performs a stunning strike exactly as he was once taught.  Realizing that the dream is not a trick, Gabbock breaks down crying, telling Tark of his enslavement in their homeland and the hands of the great Lich Zhengyi.  Tark comes back to reality and heads out of the camp, needing some time alone.  Buumi makes to follow, but the moment Tark is out of the light he shadowsteps to the forest and Buumi returns to the camp.  Tark spends the night attacking trees and smashing branches to work through his feelings.

  The next morning, the group packs up to begin their trek into the Nether Valley, stopping to harvest some firewood before setting off for the day.  Snow is starting to drift down and the season is turning to winter quickly.  As the group approaches the turn - plains or valley - Tark enacts one of his techniques, drawing shadow around the group and hiding their tracks long enough that anyone following wouldn't be able to tell which way they went.  They descend into the valley and trundle along without incident, only seeing and hearing a giant eagle as it circles a nearby peak.  They make it halfway through the valley, covering a score of miles before they see a good camp site and the base of a cliff with numerous boulders out front and decide to camp for the night.  They make dinner and chat around the fire, eating the last of the good food from the Tavern of Doors.  All notice though that Tark is still despondent, not having slept since finding out about his master.  Cirrus decides that it's time for him and Tark to fight, the only thing that would cheer up the normally up-beat halfling.  The Warlock challenges Tark to a sparring match and the halfling agrees, cheer returning to his face.  Patches hops up on a boulder to get a good view as the Dwarves hop up onto the wagon, starting a betting pool with the nearby Drow.  The fight begins and as Cirrus backs up quickly, slinging blasts of force at the monk, Tark dodges and leaps in pursuit, landing as many blows as he takes.  The fight quickly moves away from the camp and into the boulder field, causing Buumi to lose sight with his lack of night vision, forcing him to ask for a play by play from Patches, who chuckles and refuses.  Gundren begins commentating, taking pity on the human.  Everyone is following the exciting battle, until Patches notes movement in the boulders, behind the fight.  Slinking from her rock and heading forwards, Patches loads her crossbow and takes aim, loosing a bolt right past her fighting companions and into the chest of an approaching monster.  A nine foot tall, humanoid canine monstrosity, a giant Gnoll rushes at Tark, the smaller and seemingly easier prey.  The things red eyes go wide with surprise as it slashes at the monk, expecting to tear it to ribbons only to have the monk block and deflect, merely getting scratched rather than gouged.  Then the whole group opens up on the thing, Patches shooting again, Gundren unleashing shot after shot from his thundercannon while Tark and Cirrus turn to deal with the threat.  In a matter of heartbeats, the demon Gnoll is blasted to a charred set of legs.  Deciding to call their match a draw, Cirrus and Tark return to the group to rest, thinking that prudence and safety are in order for the rest of the night.

  The group wakes the next day and set off, snow lazily drifting down.  The whole day goes by without incident with the group huddled under blankets and winter gear for warmth, stopping only to get water from a crystal clear stream and eat some food by it's snowy bank.  That evening, as the group sits comfortably around their fire, burning the last of their wood, Patches hears some movement off in the darkness.  Turning, she spots four clumsy human bandits making their approach in the dark.  Rolling her eyes, she catches the attention of Fey and mouths "bandits".  Fey dons his mask and after a few moments, Patches sees the four Bandits freeze in place and their eyes go wide.  Then, each of them turns and quickly rushes out into the dark, fleeing from whatever Fey spoke into their minds.  The group chuckles as they wonder what was said and Fey ignores their questions and returns to his books.

  The snow stops, but the temperature drops further and the group wakes to a foggy morning that quickly burns off to a clear and sunny day.  Knowing that they are nearing Sundabar, the group presses on, not stopping and traveling far into the afternoon.  Climbing out of the valley, they start rising over small hills and through low dales, approaching the Dwarven Citadel from the east and nearing the river Rauvin.  Off in the distance, everyone hears a three note blast from a horn.  The group stops to listen a little more, hearing the blast repeated again.  It sounds familiar to Gundren, but he cannot place it until his brother; Barthen leaps to his feet on the wagon and exclaims that it's a Dwarven patrol horn - their kin are in trouble!  Buumi puts Cercei on the wagon with the Rockseekers and the group rushes off, galloping in the direction of the trouble and with the non-combatants and the wagon in close (and bumpy) pursuit.  Cirrus sends up his own to scout ahead but Fey is the first to crest the hill and take in the scene.

  The river Rauvin roars down before the group, cutting through a plain speckled with snowfall, a squat and sturdy stone bridge spanning the river at the shortest point.  Arrayed in a line in front of the bridge and backing across it is a Dwarven patrol of twelve with shields and weapons presented.  Charging the group is a veritable horde of Goblinoids.  Dozens of Orcs, Goblins and Ogres as well as two hill giants face off against the unfortunate Dwarves and even as they party takes in the scene, the front Orcs smash into the Dwarves, laying three of the bearded folk out.  Fey summons his power and unleashes a blistering ball of light and energy along one flank of the attacking monsters, incapacitating a swathe just as Cirrus enacts a wall of force, protecting and separating the Dwarves from their attackers.  Tark shadowsteps into the shadow of one of the hill giants and begins smashing it's knees as Patches hurls a firebomb into the patch of Grease Gundren spewed into the back rank of Goblins, igniting the area.  Buumi rushes in to attack the other hill giant as it reels from a volley of shells from Gundren and falls down a small embankment.  The giant hurls a rock at Cirrus clipping the warlock painfully and in retaliation, the warlock immolates the giant, killing it.  Fey sees the hoard of Orcs turning from the impenetrable wall of force to take in the new threat and decides some fireworks are in order, unleashing a lance of fire into the throng.  The explosion shakes the ground and the fireball washes across the wall of force causing the Dwarves to recoil in terror, but then cheer as the flames clear and half of the attacking force is reduced to ash.  The cadre of Ogres and the other Giant are still approaching the wall of force, until a booming voice resonates in their heads, telling them to flee or die.  Fearing the wrath of their gods, and not being very smart, another huge portion of the force turns and flees, leaving nothing but stragglers, immolated goblins, and incapacitated foes.  Patches rushes a group of Goblins, cleaving through them with masterful ease as Buumi leaps into the mass of incapacitated creatures further up the battlefield.  With a crack of thunder, the Paladin thundersteps closer to the dwarves and begins to lay into the remaining monsters.  After a few more moments of the group shooting, casting spells and slaughtering the remaining enemies, no one remains standing to offer resistance.  The dwarven patrol looks on in awe and the group moves over and Cirrus drops the wall of force.  A few moments later, the groups wagon (with the Rockseekers and Cercei) crests the ridge and trundles down to the group facing the Dwarven Patrol.  Tark notes two dead Dwarves, one seriously injured and Buumi pushes forward to revive the dead while Cirrus attends to the others wounds.  Gundren begins talking with the patrol commander - Gebbin Steeltoe, who is still in shock over the whole series of events and the saviors that appeared at their time of need...
