---
title: Barovia - Session 14
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 14
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "argynvost"
  - "atropos"
  - "bahamut"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "ireena"
  - "jack-mayer-johnson-mathews"
  - "kangaxx"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "orcus"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "van-richten"
places:
  - "amber-temple"
  - "baldurs-gate"
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "feanons-tower"
  - "keep-of-thunder-bluff"
  - "oerth"
  - "sanctum-of-krasus"
  - "underdark"
  - "vallaki"
things:
  - "artifact-shard"
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "gwen"
  - "tome-of-strahd"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
---

The group is breathing heavily on the slopes of Mt. Baratok, injured and tired from the battle with the simian beast - The Genoskwa.  Taking a moment to ensure that no further combat is incoming, the group looks out into the misty night air of the forest, a chill rain misting the mountainside.  Ensuring that they are safe for the moment, Buumi and Cirrus rush around healing to prevent any serious injuries.  The group discusses whether to rest up, or push on to find Mordenkainen - who Stick assures is close.  The group decides to push on, up the mountain.  After another hour of hiking up the steep alpine slopes, the tall pines give way to rocky alpine "meadows" (more moss than grass), the snow line only a few hundred meters further up blanketed in thick roiling clouds.  The rain at this point is more snow than water and the cold wind howls across the open slope.  Fey asks Stick how much farther, getting a rather inaccurate response of "not far now!" but being assured that Mordekainen is farther up, in the snow.  Approaching the wall of clouds, snow whipping into their faces, the group realizes that they are nearing the border of the valley of Barovia and that the storm here is ever-present.  The group reluctantly sets off, into the storm - Patches complaining that she's fed up with Barovia - with affirmatives echoing throughout the group.

  The snow quickly deepened until the group was forced to begin digging and using magic to blast a path in the snow, lest they slow to a crawl.  Buumi started to use his shield as a shovel, with Tark using the heat from his Elemental ring and Fey's Firebolts to melt the snow while Cirrus used Eldritch blasts to knock it aside.  Minutes of this turned into another hour, time ticking away as the deadline to meed Strahd gets ever close, 16 hours away.  Cirrus sends up his owl to try and scout ahead, but the familiar is veritably knocked from the air by the wind and has to hop back to Cirrus on the ground.  Patches begins to shiver again as the cold gets to her again, her Underdark heritage not preparing her for extreme cold.  Suddenly, Gundren calls out for the group to stop, that he sees something up ahead through the howling wind and stinging ice.  Squinting, he can just make out the form of a huge Elk about fifty feet ahead.  Stick lets out a squeak of excitement, and at that moment, the Elk suddenly becomes humanoid and a great flash of light and clap of thunder - a brilliant lightning blast flies from the mans hands, detonating amidst the group, causing a small avalanche of snow and crater.  Fey, Cirrus and Gundren are all thrown to the ground unconscious and smoking.  The storm seems to halt itself around the battle, the air clearing and visibility to the man becoming easier.  A middle aged, bald man with a stark black goatee threaded with silver and clad in a tattered robe stands atop a boulder, his hands and eyes crackling with arcane energy.  Mordenkainen, for the group recognizes the description Fey gave them, calls out "YOUR MASTER CAN NEVER BREAK MY SPIRIT!" and prepares to throw another blast of powerful energy.  Stick calls out to him at the same time Patches pulls herself from the snow, both calling to Mordenkainen that they are friends and allies, come to aid him.

  Recognizing the voice of his beloved Staff, Mordenkainen seems unsure of himself and halts his attacks, though not releasing his power.  He calls out to the group, asking how they know him and why the voice he hears in his head is so familiar?  Buumi, pulling himself from the snow looks at the carnage wrought by a single lightening bolt from the powerful archmage and quickly rushes to the air of Fey, while Tark rushes to Cirrus.  Both are revived from unconsciousness, but Gundren is nowhere to be seen - but Gwen is frantically digging at the snow and the group quickly pull the dwarf out and revive him too.  Buumi turns to Mordenkainen and raises the Amulet of Ravenkind from around his neck, summoning sunlight.  Patches, not warned, is blinded by the sunlight reflecting from all the snow and lets out a blistering curse, clutching at her eyes as she stumbles to her knees in the deep snow.  Mordenkainen squints against the light, and realizes that no allies of Strahd would summon sunlight.  The sunlight, plus the clerical healing and Stick talking into his mind, is enough to convince Mordenkainen to trust the group, at least for now.  He lets the group approach as he hugs himself against the cold wind and backs up, off the rock, to a small alcove in the mountainside.  Mordenkainen looks at the group with wide, bloodshot eyes, still untrusting.  After a few moments of conversation and some prodding from Stick, he allows Buumi to step forwards and attempt to restore Mordens mind with holy power.  Laying his hands upon the archmage, Buumi casts Restoration and clarity floods back into the Archmage of Oerth.  Morden sags against the alcove wall and looks up at the group, clearly exhausted, but very grateful.  Fey tosses Stick, and Morden telekenetically catches it from the air, quickly leaning upon his powerful staff.  With an invitation to follow, Morden turns around and walks straight through the rock.  Shrugging, and equally exhausted, the group follows.  

    The group crosses the threshold of the pocket-plane, into Mordenkainens home away from home. As Fey and Tark cross the threshold, they both feel a pull at their belts and discover their bags of holding missing.  On a hunch, Fey promptly turns around and leaves, finding a small chest just outside the door.  opening the chest, he finds both bags of holding safely inside and realizes only the owner would be able to take their own bag and that leaving the premises would automatically return the bags to their respective owners.  Back inside, the group is greeted to a magnificent sight, a single massive, marble columned chamber.  Each section of the chamber clearly dedicated to a function - sleeping quarters, a lounge, an alchemy lab, a library etc.  Most importantly, the group sees a large banquet table covered in an assortment of food and mob it, feasting.  They talk with Morden over dinner, relaying their tale of the last couple of months - Kangaxx, the piece of artifact they have, the dark entity backing Orcus, Barovia, Rahadin being a silver dragon and brother of Argynvost and the Tome of Strahd they have.  Morden looks at the Artifact shard, not recognizing it, he also looks at the Tome of Strahd and claims to be able to break the cipher with study.  The group leaves the Tome with him for now.  He then also looks at the Amulet of Ravenkind and the staff Tark got from Bahamut but had little insight into them without his spellbook.  The last thing he looks at however is the ring of Mind Shielding worn by Fey and now containing the shard of the entity from The Amber Temple.  He recognizes the 'flavor' of the power within, that it feels much like the entity moving in the outer planes: Atropos.  After some quick discussion, the group and Morden believe that The Amber Temple may be a prison for shards of Atropos - Atropals, like what they fought at Baldur's gate, and other dark entities related to what the Barovians call "The Night Mother".  After resting for several hours Patches sneaks over to Fey, asking that if he returns to The Amber Temple for power...take her with him... The group then begins to prepare for their meeting with Strahd: bathing, fixing outfits, polishing armor, JmJm tuning his harp...  Stick communicates to everyone in the sanctum, asking them about the sudden arrival of another person, JmJm.  The group, and even Mordenkainen don't seem to understand until Stick points out that he literally just appeared and most certainly did not arrive with the group.  With prodding and pointing out the non-sequitur, some of the group start to wrestle with the miasma in their heads that has clouded them since arriving to Barovia.  Eventually, Gundren, Tark, Patches, JmJm and Buumi manage to clear their heads and realize that people have been coming and going into the mists seemingly at random and that no one notices or remembers for very long.   Disturbed, but not knowing what to do about it, they refuse to let that knowledge slip away (despite feeling it fighting against them).  JmJm is in high spirits, glad to be "back" and is caught up on what he missed after the group members realize how much he's been gone for.  His enthusiasm and flippancy is in stark contrast to the tired and somber mood of the group, trepidation boiling over at visiting Strahd in his seat of power and unsure of the role Rahadin is playing in the valley.

    Knowing they are still on the clock before a carriage arrives to take them to Ravenloft and not wanting to lead the carriage to Mordenkainen's sanctum, the group rests as long as they can in safety before deciding to teleport to Tsolenka pass.  Mordenkainen sees the group off, handing them a set of Sending Stones to stay in contact while he recovers and deciphers the Tome of Strahd and providing Fey with the teleportation room to his sanctum.  Fey energizes the circle and the group finds themselves back in the frozen watchtower of Tsolenka pass, thoroughly cramped and crowded in it's small walls, but with enough room for a small fire while they await the carriage.  Waiting out their last remaining hours in the tower, the group is relieved when they hear the clip-clopping of horse hooves approach.  Cracking the ice encrusted door, they see an ornate black carriage, gilded with a satin interior - pulled by a coal black stallion.  collectively sighing (save for an excited JmJm), the trudge over to, and climb into the carriage.  The moment the door is closed, it begins rolling away, the Stallion picking up speed and altitude as it rides into the sky and off the mountainside.  A little surprised, but honestly not as much as they should have been, the exasperated group talks succinctly, strongly suspecting they are being heard in Strahd's magical carriage.  On the trip the group discusses what they saw at the Amber Temple, beginning with Patches asking Buumi about his "first kill" as hers was when she was young; killing an invading Drow during inter-house warefare. They ask Patches about her sister, and Tark about his close call with necromancy at an early age.  Justifiably so, no one is too eager to delve into their painful backstories and the Carriage careens across the sky, touching back down onto the Old Svalich road.  Touching down, they see a huge pile of ruins, as if a giant tower had fallen not too long ago as they approach the Tser Falls bridge on the High Road.  Passing on, they begin to rise, skirting along a thin and twisting mountainside road.  Coming around the side of the mountain, the group is treated to a clear view of Ravenloft castle through the rain; a dark storm roiling overhead and flickering with the occasional flash of lightening.  The patter of the rain on the carriage increases as they approach the dark and foreboding castle, it's tall towers and battlements feeling stretched into the heavens - the castle disproportionately tall and sharp.  The dark architecture feels sinister and oppressive, as if the very castle has a will of it's own and seeks to break you.  The carriage passes through two watchtowers and crosses an ancient lowered drawbridge, slowing as the horse trots through the gates of the castle and up to the front steps of the Keep.  Stepping out of the carriage and into the dark rain, the group looks up to a set of massive iron doors, the outside carved with intricate patterns of Dragons.  They split, soundlessly, and warm light floods out from between them, punctuated by the dark outline of a figure: Rahadin.  Patches exits the other side of the carriage, hiding behind it as the group encounters Rahadin.  The raven-haired Dusk Elf welcomes them to the castle, and bids the group follow him inside to the dining hall, tochlight glittering off his ornate arms and armor.  Patches begins to scale the exterior, but finds no easy way into the fortified castle other than the front door.  She drops back down and silently begins following the group.  In the main foyer, the group sees a great black-marbled hall, with vaulted columns and a huge staircase to the west, climbing up sixty feet to the next floor.  The walls are covered in tapestries and Bas reliefs - the two greatest flaking the entry way depicting great dragons in lifelike detail.  Opposite the entry way is a large set of bronze double doors with engraved filigree.  Rahadin leads the group, welcoming them again, to the east of the main foyer and to the Dining hall.  Another set of bronze doors like those in the entry way are guarded by a pair of tall soldiers.  Heavily armed and armored they have intricate Celtic and Norse designs and implements of war.  Beneath their full faced metal helms, the group sees a glitter of red eyes and pale skin - vampires.  The guarded door swings open, revealing a beautifully furnished room; occupied by the court of the castle and awaiting the group...

  Into the lions' den...

Rahadin strides forwards and introduces the group to the hall.  The group is greeted by Strahd, quite cordially and asked to join him.  Ireena sits on his right hand and looks perfectly healthy.  Fey contacts her telepathically through his mask, discovering she is relieved the group is here, she has not been hurt but is terrified of the situation.  To the left of Strahd sits the massive barbarian Vampire they saw go after Van Richten, in Vallaki.  The massive man is sitting bare-chested at the table, a heavy bear pelt draped across his wide shoulders and a deep red stain around the mouth of his long silver beard.  The group sees a small crown of bones encircling his brow.  The group musters their resolve and heads into the room, while Patches takes a moment to explore the main hall - climbing the stairs to the landing before turning back from what she's pretty sure is a set of Stone Golems... she then hovers just outside the dining hall, watching for the time being.  In the room, Cirrus, JmJm and Fey directly approach Strahd while Buumi, Tark and Gunren take their seats at the table to mingle.
