---
title: Barovia - Session 11
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 11
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "atropos"
  - "boris"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gowain"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "intent"
  - "ireena"
  - "kangaxx"
  - "kasimir"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "mediocris-dente"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "orcus"
  - "pickles"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "urwen"
  - "van-richten"
  - "wachter"
places:
  - "amber-temple"
  - "barovia"
  - "castle-ravenloft"
  - "faerun"
  - "menzoberranzan"
  - "oerth"
  - "vallaki"
things:
  - "gwen"
  - "holy-symbol-of-ravenkind"
  - "piwafwi"
  - "the-last-word"
  - "the-reaver"
factions:
  - "drow-faction"
  - "vistani"
---

The group faces down the street, corpses clogging the gaps between tables.  Patches surveys the scene, seeing three Zombies coming for her.  They shamble towards her and flail their broken bodies at her in a clumsy attempt to bring her down.  Patches dodges and parries the worst of it, taking superficial damage, but with Stabby draining her life force Patches is starting to look fairly weak.  Across the street, Gundren lies unconscious against a crate, bleeding profusely from numerous stab wounds.  Buumi, seeing a companion in need starts towards Gundren, but is stopped as Gowain shadowsteps next to him delivering a stunning blow to Buumi's head, causing him to stagger and drop to a knee, his helmet askew.  Gowain laughs.  Fey hastes Patches, giving her blinding speed and ducks back into the cover of a building.  Cirrus, face to face with Gowain can hardly breathe, thinking quickly, he casts a globe of Darkness on his owl to obscure himself.  By the now blazing church, Gwen tries in vain to deal some damage to the Vampire Dwarf in front of her, but his heavy plate armor is almost impervious.  Tark, seeing an opportunity to take out the enemy healer, shadowsteps to Kenga (The Vampire Dwarf) and hits him hard in the face, smashing his huge Dwarvish nose flat, but it immediately begins to reform from the regenerative powers of the Vampire.

Patches, surrounded by zombies, extricates herself quickly, using her web bracer to zip from danger to a nearby rooftop.  Knowing Arrigal to be nearby, Patches intends to flank him and leaps over the side of the roof...only to find Arrigal not there. Her fine elf ears hear something no other would have, the rippling of wind on soft clothing and she turns looking into the sky to see Arrigal flying, supported by misty darkness and with a crossbow leveled her way.  With a growl and a proclamation of "for my wife!" Arrigal lets loose the crossbow quarrel, but patches cuts it from the air with her weapons, in a blur and retaliates with a thrown knife.  The knife slips under the armor Arrigal wears, digging deep into his belly, causing him to cry out in pain and reel backwards.  Then the poison takes effect.  Screaming, louder than anyone (save Patches, a Drow of Menzoberranzan) had ever heard, with red veins covering his body and bleeding from his eyes and ears from the devastating poison, Arrigal writhes in agony, desperately trying to load another crossbow bolt.  He misses, spasms from the poison wracking his body.  Barely concious, Arrigal turns to flee, using his potion to fly to safety.  Mid flight however, the psychic agony of the spell from Fey catches up to him and he drops unconscious, 60ft to the unforgiving ground.  Patches slinks into the shadows of the alley to spring back into the fight at the most opportune time.

Back in the street, the last remaining Shadow Monk swaps places with Gowain, slamming into Cirrus with the crunch of bone.  Broken and barely conscious, Cirrus quaffs his last potion.  Buumi, finally righting himself, stumbles to Gundren's side and quickly prays to Helm for healing, closing the worst of the Dwarfs wounds. 

Suddenly, with a roar, Van Richten's war tiger bounds into the square, landing squarely on one of the zombies, the other two trying to attack it but being defeated by it's heavy armor.  Up on a neaby roof-top, the old Vampire hunter takes aim at the walking dead, loosing crossbow bolt after bolt at them, but rarely finding a mark.  The old human is clearly slipping in his old age.

Fey pops around the corner of the building, and sensing the connection between the shadow monk and Gowain, manages to communicate it to the group.  Tark, now surrounded by enemies manages to hold his own, but is sorely pressed until Cirrus's darkness covered owl obscures the scene and Tark calls upon the power of his blindfold, gaining Truesight.  Seeing his opponents, but unable to see him, Tark sees Gowain, and his strongly glowing ring and the cord of magic connecting him to the remaining Shadow Monk.  Hatching a desperate plan, Tark launches himself at Gowain, grappling him into an arm bar and with a snap of his finely honed muscles and dexterous fingers, snatches the ring from Gowain's hand...and swallows it!

The Shadow monk, about to kill Cirrus suddenly stops, standing still except for a slight shaking all over it's body.  Cirrus runs over to Buumi to take cover, while Gundren props himself on a crate and manages to fire off a few shots at Gowain, grazing him.  The scrabbling sounds of Kenga and Gwen tussling suddenly end, and Kenga walks freely from the darkness past the alley Patches is hiding in.  Kenga slaps his huge Iron maul into his hands, focusing on Cirrus, Buumi and Gundren and not noticing the Drow Infiltrator sneaking up behind him.  Patches falls upon the Vampire Cleric with a flurry of blows.  The worst are defeated by the heavy plate armor of the Vampire, but her dagger manages to slip through the plates to sting him as Patches nimble feet try to trip him.  Kenga catches himself quickly and rights himself before falling, turning and spitting curses at the would-be assassin.

Gowain grabs Tark and rolling backwards across a table and to the floor, pins Tark to the ground.  Growling and cackling maniacally, Gowain collects the sickle blade of his weapon and begins to cut into Tark's belly, disemboweling him.  At the last moment, Tark manages to squirm aside, turning a gutting into a painful gash instead.  Seeing their chance, Patches rushes from the Dwarven cleric to assault Gowain as Cirrus pops Eldritch blasts at the approaching Vampire Cleric and Buumi pulls forth his hammer and smites the incapacitated Shadow Monk, killing it for good.

Circling through the back streets, Fey makes it halfway through his flank before he senses the emotions of approaching humans and is greeted by a tired and bloody looking Ireena and four city guard.  Relaying the fight to Ireena, Fey then misty steps to a nearby rooftop.  Ireena takes her guards and starts for the alley to join the battle.

About to be gutted, and with the powerful artifact burning in his belly hurting him horribly, Tark is in a dire spot.  In a rush, Patches is to her halfling friend stabbing with her weapons and more importantly, she knees Gowain square in the ribs, rolling him off of Tark.  Barely conscious himself, Gowain flounders in the mud before Shadow stepping to the nearby ally, trying to get to his Cleric ally.  With the last of his strength, Tark follows, holding onto Gowains coat, and as he is falling, double kicks gowain out of the alley and to the street.  The burning ring finally renders Tark unconscious, but the last sight he has is of a concerned Ireena rushing to his side to give him a healing potion.

Gowain flops weirdly in the street and with a weak and trembling hand, reaches to the heavens calling to his master for help.  With a rushing sound, the entire world goes dark for a second, before the shadows all rush to a spot directly before Gowain.  Standing there, looking down on the defeated, undead Monk, is Strahd Von Zarovich, lord of Barovia.  Ireena's eyes go wide and she flattens herself against a nearby wall, pulling out a pistol.  The other guards shrink back into the alley.

The group sees the Lord of Barovia standing over the defeated Gowain.  They also see two others, a massive 8ft black Plate-mail clad vampire, covered in skulls and wielding a monstrous obsidian headed axe.  The last newcomer however, is an elegant Elf man with bronze skin and black hair, wearing ornate filigreed leather armor and with a magnificently jeweled scimitar on one hip.  Having appeared next to Patches, the elf gently touches her on the shoulder and with a flash of magic, heals her wounds... Kenga, the Vampire Dwarf cleric falls to one knee in supplication to his lord.

The Elf, who introduces himself as Rahadin, goes to each of the party members offering a small amount of healing.  Slightly refreshed but still exhausted and wounded, the group looks on in trepidation as Strahd berates the defeated Gowain.

Strahd conveys his disappointment in Gowain. That Gowain has the audacity to ask for help after centuries of hunting adventurers and now, when he meets a band he cannot crush, he calls for aid.  Tired of the Mad Dog of Barovia, Strahd reaches forwards, a lance of energy erupting from his hand and disintegrating Gowain.  Tark sits up groggily, the pain from the ring in his belly subsiding and remarks to Strahd "...I did most of that...".  Strahd chuckles and makes a beckoning gesture with his hand towards Tark, telekinetically bringing the ring towards him still in Tarks belly.  Stubbornly refusing to regurgitate the ring, Tark is instead dragged towards Strahd across the cobblestones. A flicker of annoyance on the pale, chiseled features of Strahd passes quickly and Strahd, with honeyed words, commands Tark to release the ring.  With a gurgle and unable to refuse the Master of Barovia, Tark regurgitates the ring.  Strahd wastes no time crushing it into a molten orb of gold and it falls to the ground with an ominous *thud* of something far heavier.  As the ring is destroyed, a wind whips through Vallaki, swirling the dark clouds above, the ground rumbles as if a far distant structure collapsed and the group can hear a hundred screams on the wind. The three zombies fall dead and It begins to rain.  The fires of the church begin to dim and Strahd turns toward the group as if to say something, but as he does, Ireena strides from the Alley, pistol in hand and places the barrel against his chest.  Strahd's eyes go wide, and he stops, staring at the face of the woman he loves.  Buumi, seeing a friend in danger, rushes towards Strahd.

Ireena, crushed at the devastation, screams at Strahd, asking how he could condone this attack.  Responding with heat, his fangs growing slightly and his skin actually rippling slightly, Strahd says how a lord could not abide an enemy stronghold in his land radicalizing his peasants against him, but admits that Gowain took things too far.  He inadvertently refers to Ireena as Tatyana causing the woman to scream at him in anger that she is not that woman!  Patches tries to step between them to diffuse the situation, but is ignored.  Strahd responds with "...not yet".  At that moment, a crossbow bolt, fired by Rudolph Van Richten from a nearby rooftop, rips through Strahd and strikes Ireena in the throat.  Ignoring the wound to himself completely, Strahd catches the falling Ireena and looks to Rahadin in panic, Rahadin mentions "The Workshop" and in a surge of darkness and the same rushing sound from earlier, both Strahd and Ireena are gone.  The giant plate clad Vampire turns to where the shot came from and begins to march off in that direction, throwing tables and crates from his path with contemptuous ease...

Cirrus turns to Rahadin for an explanation as Buumi pivots and rushes over to the Dusk elf (Fey trying in vain to stop Buumi from making an ass of himself).  Cirrus tries to ask Rahadin calmly about what happened at the same time Buumi demands an explanation.  Shrugging, Patches heads to the dust pile of Gowain and begins rifling through his stuff, trying on his spellwrought duster before deciding that it clashes with her Piwafwi.  She does pick up his enchanted Kusagari and gives it a good twirl before pocketing it.  Tark picks up the remains of Gowains ring and pockets that while Fey heads to the remains of the truly dead Vampire mage, finding a pouch of jewels and a platinum piece on a necklace, from Faerun, around Citadel Adbar.

Rahadin talks with Cirrus and then raises his voice to address the group, letting them know that Ireena will be well cared for, giving his word as Chamberlain that she will not be harmed nor turned into a Vampire for at least 48 hours, at which time the group is invited to dine with his master in Castle Ravenloft.  Rahadin informs the group that in 48 hours, a carriage will arrive (wherever they are in the valley) and take them to the castle, unmolested and guaranteed hospitality to discuss their "entrapment" in Barovia.  Rahadin then takes his leave, disappearing in a surge of shadow.

The group slumps with exhaustion, Fey collecting the still body of his Frog familiar.  Buumi however, heads straight to Cirrus, grabbing him by his shirt and hoisting him overhead, accusing Cirrus of killing the Barovian patrol from before. Buumi goes on to accuse Fey of killing Victor, who just shrugs at the accusation.  Buumi, exasperated points at Patches, exclaiming that the Drow seems to be the most moral of the group after Tark and himself! After a brief exchange of heated words, Patches puts her hand on Buumi's arm and looks into his eyes and implores Buumi to "let it go...".  Sad and unsure, Buumi drops Cirrus and turns away from him.  Cirrus, guilty and defeated himself, promises to try to do better.

  Civilians begin to poke their heads out of holes and coming on to the scene, and what was a battlefield quickly turns into a tragic scene of mourning.  Gwen pops back from her banishment and lopes over to the group, stopping next to Van Richtens tiger as it gnaws on the re-dead zombies.  The tiger looks at the clockwork version of itself with confusion.  Tark limps over to the Tiger, broken arm hanging at his side and offers it a piece of meat (piece of corpse...) which it eats readily and nuzzles Tark.  Patches heads over to it as well and gets the same friendly treatment.  The group heads back to the Inn to treat their wounds and exhaustion.  As they head over there, they see a battered Boris who explains that the gates were assaulted as a distraction and alas, there was fighting in the bluewater inn.  The group asks Boris to meet them at noon the next day and then enter the inn.  

Inside the inn, the group see the signs of a struggle.  Furniture is scattered and broken, and Aurora sits on the floor licking several deep wounds.  Buumi heads to her immediately to heal her.  The group looks around, seeing a distraught Urwen and his sons tear-streaked faces...and the body of Urwens wife on the bar, blood still oozing from a torn throat.  Standing from his beloved mount, Buumi is drawn to the corpse, he places his hand on her head and begins to pray to Helm.  Urwen explains to the group that the Wine casks were a trick, that they contained the Vampires and he had inadvertently brought one into his inn.  It attacked and killed his wife, but Aurora and he managed to kill it.  Distraught, Urwen falls to his knees as behind him, his wife coughs and sits up.  Wide eyed, Buumi removes his hand from her head, having revived the woman.  Suddenly too exhausted to stand, Buumi flops into an unbroken chair and swigs his whiskey.  Rejoicing at the miracle, Urwen and his kids rush their mother.  Urwen, beyond words, takes several moments to collect himself before offering free room and board to the group and telling them of his family's treasure up in the attic.  Never one to miss out on loot, Patches rushes up there as quick as her tired legs can carry her.  She opens the trap door to the attic and sees hundreds of Ravens roosting before her eyes settle on a small ornate chest.  She goes to it, picks it's lock and open the chest, finding a tidy pile of Platinum and gold.  As she turns to leave, she reconsiders taking all of their gold, and decides instead to just take half, still a whopping seven thousand gold and heads back to the common room.

Back in the common room, Fey suddenly bolts upright from his chair and leaves the inn, heading back to the site of the battle with an exhausted Tark following.  Back at the site of the battle, they look through the dead, but find no sign of Lady Wachter.  Fearing that she may be a necromancer and capitalize on all the death here, Fey warns the guards and heads back to the inn, leaning heavily on his staff for support.  In the common room once more, Patches sees Chekhov sitting on a chair, fiddling with his small dagger as Mr. Pickles loiters in a corner of the room in his small black cowl.  She finds out that Chekhov and Mr. Pickles found who stole the bones from the church, that it was a boy the Coffin-maker paid to do so.  The Coffin maker then killed the boy and stuffed him into a crate, they found the boy from the smell...

Too tired to do anything about it now, the group is about to head to bed when Cirrus suddenly stops them all, needing to get something off of his chest.  He tells the group that he initially joined them to steal their teeth for his patron and that in the process, the group would have been killed.  The group shrugs it off, as Cirrus clearly had a change of heart - they killed the Tooth Fairy in the Fey-wild bog plane.  Cirrus tanks the group for their understanding, but says that it may not be so cut and dried, mentioning another entity, a woman named Marilith who actually did most of the killing.  Those in the group with knowledge of the lower planes gawked at him, recognizing the name as that of a Greater Demon.  Unsure of that, Cirrus shrugs apologetically...at least the group knows...right?  Cirrus then goes on to tell the group that he will keep a single promise to each of them as penance.  Patches asks that he disguise himself at her command.  Tark get's Cirrus to promise that they can fight some time.  Fey mulls over his words and refrains for the time being.  Gundren is passed out from his wounds.  Buumi makes Cirrus promise that he will try to save all the innocents that he can.

They head to a much needed rest.

Sleeping late, the group awakens slightly refreshed, but still exhausted.  Down in the common room, they discuss what to do, as they have now 38 hours before they are summoned to the Castle.  As they discuss it, Buumi polishes and dons his armor, showing Chekhov how to don Plate armor and learning some much needed squiring skills.  The group decides to head to the Amber Temple in an attempt to ascertain the nature of Barovia and Strahd's power before facing him.  On the way, with a spell of Dream-shaping, Cirrus also hopes to make contact with Mordenkainen.  Agreeing, the group heads to collect their mounts, but is stopped when Buumi announces he has one task to perform in town before leaving - dealing with the murderous and treacherous coffin-maker Henrik.

The group marches over to the Coffin-maker's shop, Fey blasting the door off it's hinges with a spell.  Inside, Henrik is desperately trying to stuff some food into a traveling bag, seeing his door blown inwards and a heavily armed group coming towards him, he makes a break for the back door.  With a flick of her wrist, Patches webs the man to the back wall and the group surrounds him.  Buumi enacts a Zone of Truth and cuts the webbing carefully from the mans face.  The rest of the group backs away from the zone... Henrik spills everything. confused as to why he is saying so much and getting more and more scared as he does, he tells the group they Gowain forced him to make the wine barrels and smuggle the Vampires into Vallaki, that he paid Milivoj to steal the bones of St. Andral and he then killed the kid to get rid of any witnesses.  He also reveals that Lady Wachter is indeed a necromancer, and planned this attack with Gowain, though Henrik does not know her role in it.  Looking to the group and getting grim faces and a nod from Cirrus, Buumi goes to cut the mans throat.  Cirrus however is quicker on the drawn and forms an eldritch blast inside the mans skull, exploding his head.  As Buumi wipes down his armor with a grim face, Tark screams in frustration that they just killed a defenseless man.  Not happy about what had to be done, the Paladin turns to his small friend and begins to extol the virtues of the rule of law for the greater good of the people and that Henrik, a murderer and traitor, was to be executed for his crimes.  Despite that, Buumi says that he is not happy that it had to be done.  Taking a minute to reflect on how dark things have gotten in Barovia, the group then starts to head back to the inn before stopping across from the Stockyard and Van Richtens carnival wagon.  The group decides to use it as transportation.

After a thorough cleaning via magic, and summoning a ghostly, glowing horse to pull it, the group takes the wagon back to the Bluewater inn.  Back at the Inn, they collect their mounts, Chekhov and Mr. Pickles and then set out on the road west of Vallaki, determined to make it to the Amber temple.  Patches sits astride her new friend - the Wartiger, Tark sits on the roof, Buumi is driving and Cirrus and Fey are in the back attempting to contact Mordenkainen with a spell.   As they trundle out the west gate, they call to the guards telling them they will return shortly and that Ireena is with them (cirrus in disguise).  Not far from Vallaki, the wagon trundles past the road to the Vistani camp and they see a cloaked figure with a staff walking towards the road.  As the figure looks up, they see that he is a male dusk elf and he waves at the group to wait.  Running up to the wagon, the elf introduces himself as Kasimir and asks for a ride if the group is heading west.  After a quick exchange, ensuring that both parties are not vampires or servants of Strahd, they agree and Kasimir takes a seat next to Buumi as the wagon begins rolling again.  Initially tight lipped, Kasimir lets slip that he is heading for the Amber Temple after seeing the Holy Symbol of Ravenkind around Buumi's neck.  He is heading to the temple to try and find a way to resurrect his long dead sister - a once suitor of Strahd, stoned to death by his fellow elves for fear she was falling to Vampirism.  Her body now lies in the crypts of Castle Ravenloft.  Kasimir asks if he can accompany the group to the Amber Temple, but the group is unsure.

Back in the wagon, Fey remains in meditation for several hours.  As the sun is setting, Fey finally feels the mind of Mordenkainen and reaches out to him in the dream world.  Fey sees a huge ornate room, like that of a grand cathedral but with a huge round table at it's center with thirteen seats.  Mordenkainen, a bald sharp faced man of middle years and wearing a striking black goatee is watching children (his own) play through the space.  Other figures abound, clearly from his homeworld of Oerth.  Fey constitutes his body from mist as the color leeches from the dreamworld.  Noting something amiss, the subconscious of Mordenkainen turns to face the newcomer, wary and ready to battle, proclaiming "even asleep, I am no easy mark!".  Fey quickly puts the Archmage at ease and begins relaying to him the story of the group and their time in Barovia in the hopes that they can help one another.  Mordenkainen is unaware of the Fragment of The Last Word or what it might be (the gold artifact Buumi has in his shield) but is intrigued, especially that Kangaxx would want it so bad.  Morden mentions that he and the other Archmages of the worlds have felt a great entity of evil moving across the planes, approaching the prime material and that they are all looking into it.  He came to Barovia in an attempt to find out more and to destroy Strahd who he thinks is an ally of Orcus and this other greater Evil - Atropos.  Fey shows Morden a representation of the Journal of Strahd and he is intrigued.  Morden asks that the group bring him that journal and that if they find his items that they return them to him.  When asked why he cannot find these things himself, Morden believes that in the waking world, he is not in his right mind, suffering from some form of malaise or insanity and asks the group for their help in exhange he will teach Fey some powerful spells.  Fey agrees and he fades from the dream world, waking in the back of the rumbling wagon as it turns south at a crossroad - towards Tsolenka pass and The Amber Temple...
