---
title: "Barovia - Session 2"
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: "Barovia"
session: 2
---

The group surveys the aftermath of the battle and decides there's nothing left to do there.  They take their loot from the bodies and just as they are about to leave, JmJm fades into mist and disappears, and Gundren bursts from a shallow grave in a fountain of grave dirt and curses.  Gwen, the mechanical lion pads out of the mist and the group explains what has happened to them - the cursed mist and that they are heading to Barovia village, but don't know yet who to side with.

 The mist begins to burn off a little and visibility improves enough that the village is visible as distant dark shapes through the mist.  Above them, the mountains become visible and the Castle Ravenloft appears, spearlike, rising atop a huge stone cliff.  Many towers and parapets built off of other stone pillars and columns, the dark castle rakes the sky.  The Dark Gothic Castle looms over the village, a thousand feet above, and it's tallest towers even higher as they are lost in the low cloud cover.  (think Evil looking Nuchweinstein).

The group continues along the road.  Cold mist, light rain and a moaning wind torment them through the empty fields surrounding the town, the occasional menacing scarecrow looming out of the mist.

Eventually making it to the outskirts, the group sees a woman, standing near the edge of town, looking out into the mists, a basket under one arm, the other holding the hand of a young child.  The group decides to try to be incognito (difficult when ANY strangers are treated with suspicion) with Patches donning her old lady disguise and Cirrus altering his form to look like a huge Vistani man - the bass player from Ivonova's.  The woman sees the group, which includes a burly dwarf with a cannon, an elvish mage with a squid faced mask astride a ghostly construct steed, a paladin in full plate on a war tiger and the woman freaks out, running back into town carrying her child.  The group finds this rather odd and pushes into the town proper.

The group finds the streets completely deserted, and upon inspection, find that many of the houses are empty and have been attacked, deep scores from claws are apparent and windows are smashed from frames, dark rooms inside. Some wailing and sobbing can be heard emanating from the other side of town.  Other houses are discovered to have villagers inside, apparently cowering from something.  Buumi prays to Helm and determines that many of the abandoned buildings have undead within. 

   Before they can decide what to do next, the squeak of a rusty wheel gets their attention, and far up a street they see an old lady, with a colorful red shawl, pushing a cart of pastries.  The old lady stops at a house and knocks, eventually getting the occupant to come to the door.  After a brief discussion a pastry is handed over, and a boy is ejected into the waiting arms of the elderly woman.  The woman, and the child continue down the street towards the group.  The old lady, Morgantha, talks with the group, finding them  interesting, as does the group her.  After some discussion, the group becomes suspicious and investigates her and her pastries and offer to buy the child from her as they could use a guide.  They determine that the old lady is actually a Hag and her pastries are made of human - the child she received as payment was meat for her pies.  Cirrus eats a single bite just as they discover this and is rendered unconscious, having dreams of a wonderful place.

   Moments away from attacking the Hag and freeing the child, Fey'Anon grabs the hag and teleports her to safety, asking to be taken to Baba Lysaga, her master.  The Hag refuses, but says she will be watching and will consider it.  Morgantha then uses a spell to become insubstantial and melts into the ground.  Fey returns to a flustered group that now happens to be in the custody of a Barovian child named Chekov.  Buumi decides to train the child as a Squire seeing as Zhink is no longer with the group.  Then child, realizing he was sold to a Hag to be cooked into pastries, is understandably freaked out and hugs Patches (disguised as a granny figure herself).

The group continues on, heading into the center of the town.  As they go, they see a patrol of guardsmen, led by a villager, breach one of the abandoned houses, going in with weapons and flintlocks drawn.  Wishing to approach stealthily, Tark manifests some veiling magic and the group creeps a little closer.  Patches spider webs to the rooftop to look in one of the third story windows of this rickety and old Queen Anne style town home, Tark joins her and they look into a dark room with a shambling zombie inside - twin points of orange light for eyes.  The door to the room bursts open and a guard hacks the zombie to pieces in a matter of seconds.  Patches and Tark return to the ground floor and the group comes out of the veil to talk to the villager who is immediately terrified.  After a few moments, the guards come out of the building to talk with the group.  The group is led to The Blood on The Vine Tavern and introduced to the new Burgomaster of the town, Irmesk, son of the late Burgomaster.  The guards then continue their patrol.   Cirrus sees some Vistani in the tavern and goes to talk with them.  Tark, feeling paranoid, did not come in through the front door but through a windo, but quickly joins the group at the table with Irmesk as he relays to them what has been happening - Strahd has been attacking the town with his minions for a few weeks, his father died three nights before and things have been quiet since.  He asks the group to help him get his adopted sister away from Barovia village, and take her to the fortified town of Vallaki on the other side of the mountain where she will be safer from Strahd than here.  Strahd is obsessed with her as she looks like his long dead bride Tatyana.  The group seems to agree and heads to the Burgomasters mansion, it too looking like it has weathered many assaults.  They enter and find the body of Irmesk and Ireenas father, in a coffin waiting to be buried.  Ireena, a striking woman, is clad for battle in half plate with a pistol and sword.  She agrees to leave town with the group, but only after her father is buried.  Wanting to be on their way, Fey summons an unseen servant to head to the graveyard and begin digging a grave while the group transports the body across town.

As the group is heading down the hill, a panicked guardsman comes towards them, telling Ireena that The High Abbot - Gowain, is in the center of town and has a hollow girl hostage.  Ireena rushes to the square, with the group close behind.  They find a tall, gangly and leather duster clad man with a wolf skin wide brimmed hat atop his head. His eyes are milky and appears to be wearing a silk outfit under his duster.  He has a sickle blade to the girls neck, attached to a long chain.  Gowain seems to have no interest in Ireena, and with magic, freezes her and Irmesk.  As the group tries to negotiate with this new person, Gowain slits the girls throat with a laugh and attacks the group.  The battle is fierce.  Gowain teleporting quickly, striking powerfully before teleporting away.  As the group tries to retaliate, they find that he is flanked and protected by two invisible Shadow Monks.  Tark manages to stop the girl bleeding out and Cirrus, with a blessing from the moon, heals her wound.  Fey tries desperately to get at Gowain's mind, but finds it almost impenetrable. Cirrus, badly hurt, turns his owl familiar into a massive T-rex, which surprises everyone (no one here has seen a T rex before, or even knows what one is…)

  Eventually, with darkness spells, Faerie fire, a good throw of a Molotov and some excellent melee attacks, one of the Monks is destroyed and both Gowain and the other are in dire straights.  Tark, using his truesight and detect magic, sees that Gowain has a very powerful ring on one finger, and mid fight, attempts to take it from him.  Just as the ring slips from Gowains finger, he teleports away, abandoning the battle and the other shadow monk which is quickly destroyed.  In the confusion of the battle, Gowain left his hat behind and Tark picks it up, plopping it on his head.

  Ireena and Irmesk are freed from the ice.  Ireena laments Gowain as an insane dog and servant of Strahd.  The group hurries up to the church on the hill, saving questions for later and ready to be done with the burial and to leave this town.  They find the church in much the same state as the Burgomasters mansion and head into the graveyard to bury the body…
