---
title: Barovia - Session 24
chapter: 5
chapterTitle: Barovia
session: 24
people:
  - "aliyah-faen-tlabbar"
  - "argynvost"
  - "chani"
  - "cirrus-al-kayan"
  - "ezmerelda"
  - "feanon-serinde"
  - "gundren-rockseeker"
  - "horatio-von-bumidere"
  - "intent"
  - "ireena"
  - "jack-mayer-johnson-mathews"
  - "madame-eva"
  - "mordenkainen"
  - "rahadin"
  - "ront"
  - "shar"
  - "strahd-von-zarovich"
  - "tarkathee-daru"
  - "urwen"
  - "wachter"
places:
  - "barovia"
  - "ethereal-plane"
  - "feanons-tower"
  - "snorbuls-hole"
  - "vallaki"
things:
  - "bag-of-holding"
  - "gwen"
  - "jade-frog"
  - "the-reaver"
factions:
  - "vistani"
---

Rahadin faces off against the group, revealed in all his glory as a nimbus of dark energy wafts from the Silver Dragon.  The castles vibrating and trembling increases, dust dropping from overhead as cracks begin to spiderweb throughout.  Mordenkainen ducks through the destroyed doors leading to the Chapel Hall and immediately puts his back to the wall, using an ornate suit of ceremonial armor as cover.  Looking down the hall, he spies another set of copper doors much like the first, except this set is already hot with energy.  Knowing he has backup just behind him, Mordenkainen draws both hands back to his hip while taking a wide stance, gathering his focus.  Thrusting both hands forwards, a cascade of scarlet lightning slams into the doors in a shower of sparks, the Witchbolt assaulting the door.   The castle shakes under the assault and chunks of rock drops from the already weakening ceiling and one of the ceremonial armor suits collapses on it's plinth.  Patches slinks toward the Chapel Hall, darting inside and to the right, using a suit of armor as cover.  As she enters the hall, her eyes scan the shadows and likely spots for ambush and her keen sight picks out the form of three vampires waiting on the ceiling, using archways as cover.  Looking at the would-be attackers, Patches recognizes them from the dinner with Strahd a few nights before.  They are two of his Ex-wives, the one in red (Anastrasya) and the one in white (Ludmilla), as well as the teenage girl that had been present from Barovia Village (Gertruda).  Seeing Mordenkainen in a delicate position, Patches pulls two of her remaining grenades from her belt and rolls them down the hall, ruining the ambush with her devastating gadgets.  The grenades detonate in a flash, filling the end of the hall with glowing light and spraying the area with holy water...  

   The vampires scream in pain and terror and all drop to the floor, the flash even forcing Mordenkainen to squint in pain against the light.  The Vampire thrall; Escher falls from his concealment on the ceiling and clips the Witch bolt, sustaining horrific injuries as the lightning tears into him.  Another unseen thrall,Volenta (wearing gold) , falls from her concealment on the ceiling and writhes upon the ground, her skin blistered and burned.  Patches opens her bag of holding to calls for Ireena ,who leaps forth, journals tucked in her belt.  Ireena looks to Patches, who nods at the blinded and burned vampires and mentions that they are Strahd's Ex-wives.  Ireena smirks and rushes forward to engage with eagerness.  Hefting a spear two-handed, she launches a vicious throw at the bride Ludmilla, impaling her to the nearby wall.  The vampire lets out a shriek and clutches the quivering spear shaft in her rib cage.  Ireena draws her gracefully curving Saber and begins hacking at the vampire-girl Gertruda on her right, drawing deep gouges in her pale flesh. Patches lines up a shot with her flintlock pistol and let's loose with a crack of thunder and plume of smoke.  The bullet smashes into the tile floor next to a horribly disfigured Escher, showering him with marble chips but otherwise missing the writhing Vampire.

   Fey looks at the massive Dragon and slinks along the wall of the grand chamber, trying to put as much distance between himself and the magnificent creature as possible.  Extending one arm, Fey assaults the mind of the Dragon, creating an illusory force to tear at it's mind.  At first though, the wizard's spell is held at bay until, with a monumental effort Fey pushes it through the Dragons defenses.  The Phantasmal killer rips at Rahadin's mind, appearing as his long dead brother - Argynvost, covered in blood - but the attack seems to do little more than startle the Dragon to be terrified of the specter.  Fey notices the aura of shadow flare up as his spell hits and realizes that the Dragon is being shielded by something... Fey follows up, making a fist with his right hand and wills his Bigsby construct to strike the dragon, the massive ethereal tentacle smashing it on the flank, but Rahadin doesn't even flinch at the blow.   Fey, swallows audibly, faced by an angry Silver Dragon,  as snow and frost begins to collect around it's muzzle.  Slippy, the small jade frog, darts up to assist its master and looses a small arrow at Rahadin, but the tiny projectile plinks off his thick scales having no effect.   Just then, Tark calls out, seeing a flicker of the future showing Rahadin breathing a plume of deathly cold across the grand staircase and most of the group.  The dragon smashes his claws down on the Bigsby construct, recognizing the powerful spell, just as he lashes out behind him with a huge sweep of his tail.   The claws rake at the construct, tearing chunks of it's essence away while behind the dragon, Gwen lays flat, ducking the massive swinging tail.  Derrik the wereraven and brother of Urwen, staggers from his previous wounds and looks up in time to see the tail soaring towards him.  His luck expires and takes the tail bodily, being thrown twenty feet, crunching to a deadly stop against one of the beautifully carved stone pillars.  

  The three vampire thralls that had piled out of the smaller tower by the dining hall, look upon the silver Dragon with confusion but do not feel a drive to attack the creature.  Instead, the thralls are driven to assist it, attacking the intruders and they sprint forwards, fanning out to attack different targets.  Danica stifles a sob as the body of her brother in law lands bonelessly on the other side of her cover.  She gathers her resolve quickly as she sees one of the vampires coming and readies to attack as it passes.  It goes by so quickly that her strike not only misses, but goes entirely unnoticed as the vampire runs for the hallway leading to the Chapel.  Thinking quickly, Danica pulls out her hand crossbow and shoots the Vampire in the neck and then ducks back into cover before the Vampire can spin and see her.  The other two thralls though, see JmJm in the open and sprint forward to engage the Bard.  Meanwhile, opposite the hallway at the main doors to the castle, Lady Wachter marches her squad of skeleton warriors in through the front doors, using them as a shield to get closer and get a better view of the battlefield.  Coming up to the second set of doors, the necromancer spots JmJm and shoots forth an emerald beam of energy from her staff, but JmJm ducks and the spell goes harmlessly wide.  Gwen, still facing the Zombie ogre with the squad of skeletons and Lady Wachter behind that, sets her stance wide and grips the stone floor with her claws as lightning arcs around her.  Gwens jaws go wide and a streaking lightning bolt blazes forth, blowing the ogre and every skeleton apart in it's way.  The bolt slams into Lady Wachter, who staggers, screaming in pain but manages to deflect the remaining energy away from herself.  Seeing the necromancer distracted by the lightning blast, Gwen leaps to the side of the door, laying in wait for her to step through.     

  JmJm meanwhile, near the main door, turns away from the blasted skeletons to face Rahadin and calls out to the Dragon.  The bard calls out a terrible joke, something about bard's and "scales", but it is charged with subtle power that slips through Rahadins defenses and the dragon begins chuckling, which then escalates to full laughter as the dragon sinks to the floor shaking.  Seeing an opening, Ezmerelda darts forwards, her crimson coat flying out behind her and strikes at Rahadin with her rapier, lunging repeatedly.  Each time the tip of the sword sinks into the dragon though, the shadow aura congeals around the blade absorbing the damage and Ezmerelda backs off, eyes wide in concern.  Cirrus notes this and takes cover behind a nearby pillar to begin arcing Eldritch bolts out at the dragon, just in time for Rahadin to shatter the Laughter spell and rise to his feet.  Tark yells out to the chamber that the Dragon is about to breathe on the stairs, just as Rahadin begins swinging his head in that direction.  Seeing this, Stick begins to glow and releases a passwall spell, creating a tunnel off of the stairs and down to the main floor of the grand chamber.  Stick calls for everyone to get into the wall for cover and then casts a protective enchantment on JmJm down on the main floor.  Everyone on the stairs shakes out of their fear and immediately rush for the tunnel, letting loose arrows and shots as they dive into cover and out of line of sight of the breath attack.  As the stairs clear, soulless villagers rush down from above in pursuit of the fleeing heroes, some dropping from arrows fired up at them by Herti.  Villagers dive into the side tunnel in pursuit, but can only get in single file.  The archers back up, firing arrow after arrow into the oncoming feral, soulless Barovians.  Others bypass the tunnel and rush to engage the huge paladin, leaping atop Buumi and attempting to stab him with improvised weapons.  Buumi shrugs and rips the peasants from him, flinging them to the ground, and luckily none of them found any seams in his heavy armor.

  Head looking to the grand stair, Rahadin finds himself devoid of any good targets, and holds his breath ready.  His aura flares, orange lightning crackling in a nimbus around him and he seems to be preparing something.  Rahadin whips another claw at the Bigsby contruct, the ethereal tentacle severely diminished at this point and Fey feels the spell begin to slip.  Suddenly, Rahadin's shadow stretches across the floor and a large shade rises in front of a backpedaling Buumi, reaching out shadowy tendrils to sap the very life from the Paladin.  As the shadow sucks lifeforce from Buumi, Rahadins aura and shield intensify, regenerating from the consumed life force.  Tark sees his friend in trouble and calls out, shadowstepping to Buumi to fight the giant shadow creature by his side.  Still invisible though, Buumi does not see the monk, but sees as the shadow creature reels from unseen strikes and it's essence is greatly diminished.  Buumi notes the dragon preparing it's breath and shifts to take as much cover behind a pillar as possible, while readying the Ashbringer against The Shadow.  The paladin brings the massive crystal sword down on the Shade and the blade flashes with light, burning it's essence away in droves.  In a moment of realization, Buumi recognizes the energy as that of an Atropal and calls out a warning to the group.  Even as he does so, Buumi feels a coldness wash over him, emanating from the shadow and sapping his and Tarks strength from them.  The nearby feral peasants simply drop dead, their life force consumed and the Atropal regains a good deal of solidity from the feeding.   It reaches it's shadowy tendrils towards Tark, but the monk dodges nimbly, taking only glancing hits.  Tark, his hands shaking from the cold of the Atropal, is forced to pop the cork off of a small, glittering vial and downs a healing potion to stay on his feet...

  Mordenkainen's Witch Bolt smashes into the door, which begins to warp under the strain, the whole thing glowing red hot and beginning to lose structural integrity.  Ireena turns from the cringing Gertruda and begins hacking into Escher as well, who is still on the floor, blinded.    Alternating between the two reeling thralls, Ireena quickly begins cutting them to ribbons.  Patches rushes forward and impales Escher with her luckblade and the wounded vampire explodes into dust, destroyed.  Patches then turns her attention to Gertruda and stabs the vampire in the side with her cursed blade and activates her armor, blurring with speed, redoubling her attacks.  Ludmilla, the speared bride manages to wrench the weapon from her chest and the hole begins to close up in her dead flesh.  Her vision clearing, the bride sees the wizard channeling his powerful spell and hurls the spear at him.  The spear strikes the mage heavily, eliciting a grunt of pain, but the tip fails to penetrate, bouncing off his spell-infused robes.  Letting out a hiss, the vampire bride runs up the nearby wall and skitters along it on all fours, going to attack the mage from above.  Gertruda, crying in pain and yelling in anger, swipes at Ireena but the powerful woman deftly parries each attack, the petulant teenager getting more and more frustrated.  Anastrasya, in a beautiful red gown darts toward Patches, lashing out with clawed hands and Patches goes with the strikes, parrying and deflecting.  Seeing an opening, the rogue counter attacks with a deft riposte and sinks the tip of Stabby into her chest, forcing the vampire back into the nearby Witch Bolt.  Ana cries out in agony as the energy tears at her, ripping skin and flesh but the vampire twists away from the spell before it can kill her, but only barely, the flesh hanging from her bones. 

  Back in the main chamber, Gundren rushes into the cover of a large pillar, shooting at Rahadin, but both shells impact on the thick scales doing no damage.  Swearing, Gundren turns and lobs a lit stick of dynamite up the grand staircase at the descending Soulless.  The stick of dynamite arcs into the crowd and detonates by an archway, cracking the stone and causing a section of the ceiling to crash down, crushing many and blocking part of the stairs.  Along the wall, Fey hurls a fiery chromatic orb at Rahadin, infusing it with extra power just as JmJm directs his attention towards the wizard and gives the chromatic orb some of his own energy.  The Chromatic Orb comets toward the huge dragon and detonates against the silver scales, burning away part of the shadowy aura and shaking the chamber, causing more dust to fall from the ceiling.  Fey's summoned Bigsby tentacle flails at Rahadin smashing into scales again, but he shrugs off the blow, his natural armor and toughness negating the titanic strikes.  Rahadin spies Ezmerelda backing up from him and growls, swinging titanic claws down at the vampire hunter to smashing one mirror image in a cloud of pulverized stone dust.  She rolls to the side and dodges wildly as strike after strike rains down on the her from the massive dragon, battering her badly. She takes a solid hit from a horn as Rahadin tries to snatch her up in his maw, getting out of the way of the teeth, but not the rest of his head.  Ezmerelda is thrown backwards, bleeding badly as she rolls to her feet, grimacing and backs up quickly retreating from the fight.  The dragon lets out a roar, shaking the castle and begins to beat his wings, causing a gale of wind as the dragon rises sixty feet into the air above the battlefield, hovering just under the ceiling.  Buffeted by the huge wings, the conjured tentacle is finally destroyed and winks out of existence in a puff of blue smoke and sparks.  Nearby, JmJm ducks away from the dragon and turns his attention to the two vampire thralls that have rushed him.  JmJm begins swinging and flourishing his enchanted blade, cutting into the two vampires with ease as they attempt to duel the expert bard.  Every strike the thralls throw with their weapons are easily deflected aside and JmJm lets out a bark of laughter, enjoying the swordplay.

  Seeing the dragon ascending and getting out of reach of the stinging party, Stick teleports from the passwall behind a nearby piece of cover.  Remarking that Rahadin really is quite large, the Diamond cap of the sentient staff flashes with orange and a streaking fireball detonates in the air, engulfing Rahadin.  The conflagration swirls in the downdraft from the massive beating wings and the dragon is seemingly unhurt.  Seeing the conflagration, Cirrus' eyes go pale white and he snaps his fingers, summoning a globe of sickening radiance thirty feet off the ground, engulfing Rahadin.  The shadow Aura burns under the searing light of that spell.  Stick surveys the arena and notes Buumi battling the Atropal shadow.  Thinking the Paladin could use more of a boost, Stick flashes with power and Buumi enlarges again, taking on gigantic proportions, now the size of a true Giant.  The hugely diminished shadow attacks the massive one armed Paladin, reaching out tendrils and sapping the life from both Buumi and Tark.  The protective Aura around Rahadin flickers back to life as the party's life force regenerates it.  Seeing the strength of the creature increase, Tark lets out a cry and attacks the thing with a flurry of lightning fast strikes, catches his balance and then attacks the thing again.  The powerful staff smashes the creature and it explodes into motes of darkness, the streaking shadow emanating from Rahadin rushing back to him.

  Rahadin lets out a bellow of pain and begins to fall out of the air, stunned at the destruction of the Shadow.  The huge dragon crashes into the marble floor, shattering it in a massive spiderweb of cracks and the whole castle trembles.  Cracks grow larger and another chunk of a nearby wall breaks off, lazily floating in the strange energies from the teleportation spell moving the castle.  Rahadin lies in a heap, stunned and tries to rise, shaking and trembling but unable to do so.  All weapons turn to the stunned dragon, his absorbing aura dispersed.  Attacks soar in from every angle and find seams in the incapacitated Dragon's armor, finally drawing blood.  Buumi strides forward, crushing a Soulless he does so and begins smashing Ashbringer down on Rahadin, cracking scales and cutting into flesh.  Ashbringer glows as Buumi empowers the blade with holy might and in a flash, two points of light trail from the sword to engulf Patches and Cirrus, resolving into golden halos.  Cirrus finds the voice of Argynvost speaking through him and he addresses Rahadin, condemning the corrupted dragon's actions and promising justice this day.  Patches, the spirit of Anduriel speaking through her, admonishes the Dragon and declares it's time is at an end, her voice echoing directionless through the grand hall. Gundrens' shells rocket into Rahadin, breaking the tension and blowing apart scales, splattering blood causing the dragon roars in pain, shaking the chamber.  

   Seeing Rahadin down, Lady Wachter staggers forwards into the grand hall, raising a hand to launch a spell but lurches as Gwen leaps from concealment sinking her Mithril teeth into the necromancers hamstring.  Wachter goes down to one knee, screaming in agony and points a finger at Fey'Anon, her magical nemesis.  A flash of emerald light illuminates the area but Fey makes a batting motion with his ice staff and disrupts the Finger of Death in a shower of green sparks, countering the deadly spell flawlessly.  Lady Wachter begins to babble and rage, literal foam appearing at her mouth, as every spell she's thrown has been countered and her minions obliterated.  Gwen, her teeth still embedded in the woman, begins raking at her with her Mithril claws, tearing her back into long strips of tattered flesh.  Bleeding out, Lady Wachter cries as she sees her aspirations dissolving in front of her and manages to focus her eyes on Fey, just in time to see the streaking detonations of one of his fireballs hitting Rahadin.  The spells' flames wash over her and screaming, the necromancer of Vallaki is burned to death.  Gwen staggers back from the detonation, unharmed, but with the hamstring of Lady Wachter hanging bloodily from her mechanical jaws.  The smoke clears from Fey's powerful fireball and one side of Rahadin's torso is blackened and charred, several scales missing.  Nearby, the vampire thralls spit curses as they throw attack after attack at the flourishing Bard but hit nothing but air.  

 Near the Chapel, Danica reloads her hand crossbow and shoots the thrall running past her in the back.  The vampire lurches forwards and spins, seeing the rogue that had been peppering it and pulling a second quarrel from it's neck.  In a rage, the vampire charges Danica, who dances back from it's claws, skittering out of range and leaping into the air.  Mid leap, the woman twists and changes into a small, darting Raven and soars into the air.  High above, a chunk of wall has ripped free and is floating lazily through the air.  Danica alights on the floating platform and caws, calling to her remaining family that she has a refuge.  Far below, the Vampire looks up in frustration, spitting curses and starting back again to the Chapel hall, abandoning the flying rogue.  Seeing the door begin to buckle under his assault, Mordenkainen reinforces his spell with his own life force and the Witch Bolt surges in power as he goes pale.  The Vampire scampering along the wall swipes it's claws at his head, the strength reduced drastically from the Archmage's spells but still draw lines of blood on his bald head.  The archmage glares up at the vampire, promising Ludmilla a painful death once he's done with the door.  Ireena keeps laying cuts into Gertruda, cutting the girls left hand off at the wrist and turns, delivering powerful stabs to the badly wounded Anastrasya and Volenta.  Patches picks out her moment and hurls a firebomb at the brides, immolating them.  Gertruda skitters up the nearby wall, screaming and wreathed in flame, but falls from the wall, exploding into ash as she dies. Patches spins and delivers a powerful roundhouse kick to Ana's chest and knocks the wounded vampire back into the Witch bolt.  The vampire is torn apart by the violent forces and explodes into ash, jewelry clattering to the ground.  Volenta flees from the deadly duo, climbing up the nearby wall to avoid the Witch Bolt cutting through the space and rushes toward Mordenkainen, looking nothing more than a burned animate corpse climbing on the wall.

  Rahadin's shadow aura erupts from him in a nimbus of crackling orange lightning and the enraged dragon gets to his feet, inhaling sharply and staggering to one side to get a better shot.  Buumi smacks the dragon with Ashbringer as it moves away, while the Radiance above burns at the dragons back.  The dragon sets his feet and breathes a gale of icy death in an arc in front of him, causing heroes dive aside from the blast just as Tark yells out a warning. Slippy, Fey's familiar is frozen solid and falls to the ground inanimate while everyone else staggers from the blistering cold.  JmJm skitters back from the blast, deathly pale, covered in frost and falls to one knee but turns, pulling his harp from his belt and strums a beautiful chord.  Healing waves of energy radiate from JmJm and every ally within the area feels their stamina return and their wounds close, frostbitten flesh returning to life.  The two nearby vampire thralls are not so lucky, one being frozen solid and the other blanketed in deadly ice, but barely "alive".    Ezmerelda makes a gesture at Rahadin, unleashing a curse against him in retaliation, but the powerful dragon simply shrugs away the cloying magic.  Offended by the ridiculous bard and his healing, Rahadin leaps forward to attack, slamming massive claws down at JmJm and darting his head forward to bite. JmJm dances away, taking only glancing hits that are then partially repelled by Sticks protective enchantment.   Cirrus launches a volley of Eldritch blasts at Rahadin, but all are absorbed by his dark aura, causing concern to flash over the warlocks face.  Seeing his attacks slide off the dragon, Cirrus turns and casts a pulse of healing energy into JmJm, rejuvenating the bard further.  As Cirrus casts the spell though, the Atropal shadow rises out of the ground at his feet and reaches out dark tendrils, killing the swarm of ravens around Cirrus and sucking the life out of the nearby Soulless.  

  Tark shadowsteps behind the Atropal, unseen, and lays into it with a flurry of strikes, destroying much of it's rejuvenated essence.  Nearby, Herti and Gibra see the Soulless rushing down the stairs to attack a wounded Ezmerelda and realize that the Atropal will simply eat them, regenerating.  The archers let loose a volley of arrows into the oncoming mass of villagers, dropping several of them heading for the Vistani and robbing the Atropal of a few meals.  The sisters then re-position to take cover from Rahadin as Ezmerelda turns to meet the rush of Soulless, Rapier and handaxe flash out, cleaving limbs from bodies.  Other villagers rush past, charging Gundren and piling on top of the stocky dwarf in an attempt to bring him down.  Gundren takes several scrapes and bites from the Soulless and lets out a string of curses before shrugging, throwing them off.   Buumi rushes forward, and reaches over the dragon, his gargantuan stature letting him reach JmJm.  The Paladin touches a single, massive finger to the wounded Bard's head and fills the bard with healing energy, rejuvenating him even farther.  Rahadin snakes his head to the side to bite at Buumi's massive throat, but he interposes the Ashbringer and the teeth skitter off of the magically enlarged blade.  Gwen then leaps atop Rahadin's back and begins raking with claws and biting for the dragons neck, but the damage is dispersed by the shadow Aura, diminishing the Atropal instead.  As Gwen launches onto the Dragon, Rahadin swipes his tail at the giant Paladin and nearby Bard, knocking Buumi prone and following up with a massive claw to the Paladins chest.  Buumi shouts in surprise, and then pain as the force of the strikes bludgeon him through his armor as he's knocked to the ground.  JmJm rolls with the tail strike and comes up swinging, his enchanted weapon flourishing around him, but it's edge skips off of Rahadin's armor, throwing bright sparks.  The Dragon keeps his full attention on the downed Paladin and it's head darts forwards for Buumi's throat.  Seeing it coming, he manages to block with his armored gauntlet and defeat the attack, deflecting the snapping maw away as he rolls to his feet, an impressive move considering his size and squashes a nearby Soulless.  Buumi reaches forward, trying to grapple the dragon and force it to the ground, but one armed the Dragon easily wrests it's head from his grip.  Stick sees Rahadin reel from the grapple attempt and launches another fireball at the Silver Dragon, detonating on his already burned flank and burning the shadow aura to almost nothing.  Cirrus notes the Atropal diminish with the fireball and directs his attacks against it, launching a volley of concussive blasts at the shadow creature.  High above on her perch, Danica shifts back to her human form and takes aim with her crossbow at the Atropal, she too loosing a bolt into the shadow, just as it begins to let loose a tinny wail directed at Cirrus.  Cold energy washes over the warlock, drawing greatly at his life force but he manages partially deflect the energy with a quickly enacted ward.  Tark then shadowsteps behind the Atropal and lays into it with strikes from his staff, just as Herti and Gibra launch a volley of arrows into Rahadin.  The shadow aura and Atropal fade to be almost unnoticeable, the orange lightning nimbus almost completely gone.  That is until the nearby Soulless run past the shadow creature and feed it their life force.  The rejuvenated Atropal reaches out tendrils to embrace Cirrus, reinforcing Rahadins shield even further, just in time for Gwen to launch herself at the creature, claws flashing and shredding.  The dragon, surrounded, strikes down at JmJm forcing him to dodge wildy again and the bard manages to keep just ahead of the smashing claws and biting maw causing Rahadin to let out a growl of frustration.

  Across the massive chamber in the hall leading to the Chapel, Mordenkainen digs deep once more, feeding his life force into his spell and the Witch bolt brightens with power.  The door explodes in a shower of molten shards and the way into the Chapel lies open.  Mordenkainens spell armor blocks another series of swipes at his head, showering the area in sparks and the panting wizard makes a backhanded slap at Ludmilla.  Red light flashes and the skin over half the vampires body blisters instantly with from serious burns and her white gown is reduced to a blackened rag.  Ireena, seeing the door explode rushes forward to enter the chapel but pulls up short, seeing the ancient ornate shrine before her.  At it's heart stands Strahd, cloak billowing in the cascade of energy radiating from the Artifact.  Though deep in concentration, Strahd turns his head slightly as the door is breached and calls out that he will not be stopped!  Ireena thinks about her words, that she once loved the man before her, but that she is still Ireena at heart and calls back to her estranged husband.  She calls to him, saying that she, who was once Tatyana, has come to help him.  Strahd calls out to his love, not believing that Ireena is here of her own clear-minded, volition and says that he will free her from the party's influence.  Ireena then notes the damage the shockwaves of energy are causing, radiating from the artifact and realizes that entering the Chapel unprotected would be unwise.  Ireena calls into the chapel above the din of battle and spellcasting, telling Strahd that Rahadin has betrayed him for eons and that they have means to prove it!  Behind Ireena, Patches turns to rush to Mordenkainens aid and as she goes, pulls her pistol from it's holster and looses a shot at the horribly burned Volenta.  The naked, burned and corpselike vampire takes the bullet in the temple, blowing out the back of her skull and falls to the ground in a pile of crumbling ash.  As another bride falls dead, the thrall from the main chamber rushes in to engage Patches, slashing furiously with it's sword, but Patches dodges and parries each attack with ease.  Meanwhile, across the main hall, two more Vampire thralls rush from the tower and at the main gate another group of skeleton warriors march in through the front door of the castle, coming up behind  Fey who had taken cover in the foyer.   Badly wounded, magically taxed and utterly done with Barovia, the group faces down the deadly dragon - but Rahadin is equally hurt, with cracked scales, horrible burns and bleeding from dozens of wounds.  The castle shudders and shakes, and more pieces begin to crack apart and drift lazily, magenta light seeping into the shattering castle...
